SWP No. 5.1

(Examination of
Nehemiah Abbott, Jr.
)
[April 22, 1692]
The examination of
Nehemiah Abbot
, at a court at Salem village,  by
John Hawthorne
and
Jonathan Corwin
Esqrs. 22nd April 1692 .
What say you, are you guilty of witchcraft, of which you are suspected, or not? No Sir, I say before God, before whom I stand, that I know nothing of witchcraft. Who is this man?
Ann Putman
named  him. --
Mary Walcot
said she had seen his shape. What do you say to this? I never did hurt them. Who hurt you
Ann Putman
? That man.  I never hurt her.
Ann Putman
said, he is upon the beam. Just such a  discovery of the person carried out, and she confessed; and if you  would find mercy of God, you must confess. -- If I should confess  this, I must confess what is false. Tell how far you have gone, who  hurts you? I do not know, I am absolutely free. As you say, God  knows. If you will confess the truth, we desire nothing else that you  may not hide you guilt, if you are guilty, and therefore confess if so.  I speak before God that I am clear from this accusation. What, in all  respects? Yes in all respects. Doth this man hurt you? Their mouths  were stopped. You hear several accuse you, though one cannot open  her mouth. I am altogether free. Charge him not unless it be he. This  is the man say some, and some say he is very like him. How did you  know his name? He did not tell me himself, but other witches told  me. Ann Putman said, it is the same man, and then she was taken with  a fit.
Mary Walcot
, is this the man? He is like him, I cannot say it is  he.
Mercy Lewis
said it is not the man. They all agreed, the man had  a bunch on his eyes.
Ann Putman
, in a fit, said, be you the man? ay,  do you say you be the man? did you put a mist before my eyes?  Then he was sent forth till several others were examined. When he was  brought in again, by reason of much people, and many in the windows so that the accusers could not have a clear view of him, he was   ordered to be abroad, and the accusers to go forth to him and view  him in the light, which they did, and in the presence of the magistrates and many others discoursed quietly with him, one and all acquitting him, but yet said he was like that man, but he had not the  wen they saw in his apparition, Note, he was a hilly faced man and stood shaded by reason of his own hair, so that for a time he seemed  to some by-standers and observers, to be considerably like the person the afflicted did describe.
Mr. Samuel Parris
, being desired to take in writing the examination of
Nehemiah Abbot
, hath delivered it as aforesaid, and upon  hearing the same did see cause to dismiss him.
John Hawthorne
Jona. Corwin
{  Assistants.
(
Thomas Hutchinson
, The History of the Province of Massachusetts-Bay,  vol. 2, ed. Lawrence Shaw Mayo. (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1936.) p. 35.