SWP No. 6.4

(Recognizance for
John Alden
)
[December 31, 1692]
Suffolk Ss.
Memorandum, That on the Thirty First day of Decemb'r 1692.  In the Fourth year of the Reign of our Sovereign Lord & Lady  William and Mary by the grace of God of England Scotland France  and Ireland King and Queen &c p'sonally came and appeared Before  me
John Richards
Esq'r One of their Ma'ties Justices of the Superiour  Court of Judicature within the Province of the Massachusetts Bay in  New England,
John Alden
#[of] Marrin'r
Nathanael Williams
&
Samuel Chechley
, Shopkeepers all of Boston within the said County  of Suffolk.
and acknowledged themselves and each of them to be  indebted unto our said Lord and Lady the King and Queen, and the  Survivour of them, their heires and Successors in the Sum of Two  hundred pounds To be levied on their or either of their Goods,  Chattels, Lands or Tenements for the use of our said Lord & Lady  the King and Queen or the Survivour of them, if default be made  in the performance of the Condition underwritten.
The Condition of the above Recogniscance is such That whereas  the abovebounden
John Alden
, being accused and Suspected of perpetrating divers Acts of Witchcrafts contrary to the forme of the  Statute in that case made and provided, was taken up and committed  for the same unto their Ma'ties Goal in Boston, from whence he  made his Escape If Therefore the said
John Alden
shall personally  appear before their Ma'ties Justices, at the next Superiour Court of  Judicature and Court of Assize to be held at Boston within the said  County of Suffolke, to answer what shall be objected against him on their Maj'ties behalfe referring unto the p'rmisses, And shall do and receive that which by the said Court shall then & there be Enjoyned  him, Then this abovewritten Recogniscance to be void and of none  Effect; Or else to abide and remain in full force and virtue./.
Recognit die predict.
Cor. me.
*John Richards
( MS Ch F, vol. 10, p. 47, Rare Books & Manuscripts, Boston Public Library, Boston, MA.)