SWP No. 8.1

(Examination of
Mary Barker
)
[August 29, 1692.]
29 August 1692.  Before
Maj'r Gidney
Mr. Hauthorn
and
Mr. Corwin
The Examination and confession of
Mary Barker
of Andover
After severall questiones propounded and negative answe'rs Returned  she at last acknowledged that Goody Johnson made her a witch, And  that #[this] sometine last #[spring] sumer she made a red mark in the devils  book with the forefinger of her Left hand, And the Devil would have her hurt
martha Sprague
Rose foster
and
Abigail martin
which she did upon  Saturnday and Sabath day last, she said she was not above a quarter of  an hour in comeing down from Andover to Salem to afflict, she sayes she afflicted the above three persones bye squeezeing her hands.   she confesses she was at the witch meeting at Salem Village with her  unkle, there was a great many theire, and of her company their was  only her unkle,
W'm Barker
and
mary marston
Martha Sprague
said  that
Mary Barkers
apparition told that she was baptised at five myle pond.
said
Mary Barker
said there was such a load & weight at her stomack that hindered her from speakeing And is afrayd she hes given up  her self soul & body to the devil she sayes she promised to serve  worship and beleeve in him And he promessed to pardone her sins,  but finds he hes deserved her, and that she was Lost of god and  all good people, That Goody Jonson and Goody falkner appeared  at the same tyme and threatned to teare her in peeces if she did  not doo what she then did. she further sayth that she hes seen no  appearance since but a fly which did speake to her, and bid her  afflict these poor creatu'rs. which she did by pincheing with, and  Clincheing of her hands for which she is sorry, And further the Devil   told her it would be very brave and cliver for her to come down  here to Salem among these accused persones. And that she should  never be brought out.
She promises to confess what more she shall  hereafter remember.
Mary Barker
Signed and owned  The X  marke
of
Mary. Barker:
the abovesaid
Examination & Confesion
17 Sep't 1692 before me
*John Higginson
Jus'e peace
(Reverse) Confession of Mary Barker
acused.
w'm Barker Sen'r
Goody Johnson
Goody Falkner
Goody Mazston
aflicted
Martha Sprage
Rose Foster
Abigall Martin
( Suffolk Court Files, vol. 32, docket 2678, p. 10. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State  Archives. Boston, MA. )