SWP No. 9.2

(Examination of
William Barker, Sr.
)
[August 29, 1692]
29. agust. 92.   Coram
Mag'r Gidney
m'r hathorn
m'r Corwin
Cap't higginson
William Barker
of Andove'rs examination  & confession
He confesses he hes been in the snare of the devil three yeares,  that the devil first appeared to him lyke a black man and perceived  he had a cloven foot, That the devil demanded of  him to give up himself soul & Body unto him, which he promesed to  doe, He said he had a great family, the world went hard with him and  was willing to pay every man his own, And the devil told him he would pay all his debts and he should live comfortably. -- He confesses  he hes afflicted #[?]sed
Sprague
foster
and
martin
, his three accusers. That  he did syne the devils book with blood brought to him in a thing lyke an Inkhorn that he dipt his finger therein and made a blott in the book which was a confirmation of the Covenant with the devil.  He confesses he was at a meeting of witches at Salem Village where he judges there was about a hundred of them, that the meeting  was upon a green peece of ground neare the ministe'rs house, He said  they mett there to destroy that place by reason of the peoples being  divided & theire differing with their ministe'rs
Satans design was to set up his own worship, abolish all the  churches in the land, to fall next upon Salem and soe goe through  the countrey, He sayth the devil promeised that all his people should  live bravely that all persones should be equall; that their should be no  day of resurection or of judgement, and neither punishment nor  shame for sin. -- He sayth there was a Sacrament at that meeting, theire was also bread & wyne m'r
Burse
was a ringleader in that meeting and named several persones that were there at the meeting, It was  proposed at the meeting to make as many witches as they could,  And they were all by m'r
Burse
and the black man exhorted to pull  down the Kingdome of christ and set up the Kingdome of the devil,  He said he knew
mr Burroughs
and
Goody How
to be such persones,  And that he heard a trumpet sounded at the meeting and thinks it  was
Burse
that did it, The sound is heard many myles off, And then  they all come one efter another -- In the spring of the yeare the witches came from Connecticut to afflict at Salem Village but now  they have left it off And that he hes been informed by some of the  grandees that there is about 307 witches in the country, -- He sayth  the witches are much disturbed with the afflicted persones because they are discovered by them, They curse the judges because their  Society is brought under, They wold have the afflicted persones count ed as witches But he thinks the afflicted persones are Innocent & that they doe god good service And that he hes not known or  heard of one Innocent persone taken up & put in prisone -- He saith  he is heartily sorry for what he has done and for hurting the afflicted  persones his accuse'rs, prayes their forgiveness, desyres praye'rs for  himself, promises to renounce the devil and all his works, And then  he could take them all by the hand without any harme by his eye or any otherwise  5.7:92 the above Said is the Truth as wittnese my hand: --
* William Barker
---
(In left margin) he owned this is the Court of Oyre & Terminer as on the back Side
(Reverse) Wm Barkers Exa.
acused.
mr Buse
mr Buroughs
Goody How
Coneticut witches  & Severall others
aflicted
martha Sprage
Rose foster
Abigall martin
at A Court of Oyer & Termine'r held at Salem
Sep'r 16 92.: owned in Court at Salem Sepr. 16. 1692
attest
* St: Sewall
( Massachusetts Archives Collection, Vol. 135, No. 39. Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )