SWP No. 10.1

(Examination of
William Barker,Jr.
)
[+ September 1, 1692]
[?]Sep't 92
Before
Maj'r Gidney
m'r Hawthorn
m'r Corwin
&
Cap't Higginsone
.
The Examination and confession of
W'm Barker
aged 14 yeares or #[there]about
He is accused for exerciseing acts of witchcraft upon the bodyes  of
Martha Sprague
Rose foster
and
Abigail Martin
, which he did not  deny but could not remember it. ----
He confesses now that he hath not been in the snare of the devil  above six dayes, That as he was goeing in the woods one evening to look efter cowes he saw the shape of a black dog which looked  very fiercely upon him And he was much disturbed in his mynd  about it and could not sleep well that night
And betymes next morneing he mett with a black man (he calls him a black man because he had black cloaths and thinks he had a black skin) who  bid him set his hand to a book and serve him as long as he the said
Barker
Lived, which he promeised
And thereupon set his hand to the  book by putting his finger thereon, He saith the black man brought red stuff along with him in an Inkhorn
And he the said
Barker
dipt  his finger into it and therewith made a red mark on the paper He  confesses he was to doe any service the black man appoynted him  and was to have a sute of cloaths for it. he said further the black  man would have him baptised but he never was. -----
He saith further that Goody Parker went with him last night to  afflict
martha Sprague
, And that he afflicts by clincheing his hands together. He now Saith he is sorry & hates the devill but yet struck  down the afflicted with his eyes,
And
martha Sprague
being recovered out of a fitt said that
Barkers
apparition and Goody Parker  rid upon a pole. and was baptised at five myle pond,----- He now sayes  there was such a load upon his Stomack that he could not speak,
A litle after he owned he was baptised by the black man at five  myle pond and did also renounce his former baptisme, he knowes  Goody Parker to be a witch  And sayes the devil dipt his head into  the water & spoke these words that he the said
Barker
was his  for ever and ever.
He said he could not think of his baptisme before, ------
And that the load that was upon his stomak is not so heavy as it was but just before  He #[said] still afflicted
martha Sprague
& shut her mouth but by layeing  his hand thereon opened it again. -- and afterwards confessed that there were of his Company Goody Parker Goody Parker
Samuel Wardwell
& his wife and two daughte'rs.
And then could take the afflicted persones by the hand without doeing them any harme.
W'm Barker Jun'r
Signed & owned the abovesaid
Examination & Confession.
before me
*John Higginson
Just'e peace:
The marke  X
of
William Barker Jun'r
(Reverse) Confession of
William Barker Jun'r
acused.
Goody parker
Goody Johnson
Sam'll wardell
.
his wife
& 2 Daughters
aflicted
martha. Sprage
( Suffolk Court Files, vol. 32, docket 2761, p. 103, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA )