SWP No. 13.11

( Testimony of
John Louder
v.
Bridget Bishop
)
[June 2,1692 ]
John Louder
of Salem Aged aboute thurtey two Yeares, Testifieth  and sayth that aboute seaven or Eight yeares since I then Liveing w'th
M'r John Gedney
in Salem and haveing had some Controversy with
Bridgett Bushop
the wife of
Edw'd Bushop
of Salem Sawyer aboate  her fowles that used to Come into our orchard or garden. Some little  tyme after which, I goeing well to bed; aboute the dead of the night  felt a great weight upon my Breast and awakening looked and it being bright moon: light did clearely see s'd
Bridget Bushop
-- or her  likeness sitting upon my stomake and puting my Armes of of the  bed to free myselfe from that great oppression she presently layd  hold of my throat and almost Choa[ked] mee and I had noe strenth or power in my hands to resist or help my selfe, and in this Condittion  she held mee to almost day, some tyme after this, my Mistress
Susannah Gedney
was in our orchard and I was then with her. and  s'd #[s'd]
Bridget Bushop
being then in her Orchard w'ch was next adjoyneing to ours my Mistress told s'd
Bridget
. that I said or afirmed  that she cume one night & satt upon my brest as afores'd which she  denyed and I Afirmed to her face to be tru and that I did plainely  see her. upon w'ch discourse with her she Threatened mee. And  some tyme after that I being not very well stayed at #[w]home on a Lords  day and on the after noon of s'd day the dores being shutt I did see a  black pig in the Roome Comeing towards mee soe I went towards itt  to kick it and it vanished away Immediately after I satt down in a Narrow Bar and did see a  black thing Jump into the window and came & stood Just before my  face, upon the bar the body of itt looked like a Munky only the feete  ware like a Cocks feete w'th Claws and the face somewhat more like a mans than a Munkies. and I being greatly affrighted not being able to speake or help my selfe by Reason of feare I suppose, soe the thing spake to mee and said I am a Messenger sent to y'u for I understand  you are trobled in mind, and if you will be Ruled by mee you shall want for Nothing in this world upon which I Endeavered to clap my  hands upon itt, and sayd You devill I will Kill you. but could feale noe substance and itt Jumped out of the window againe. and Imediatly  Came in by the porch althow the dores ware shutt. and sayd you  had Better take my Councill, where upon I strook at it with a stick  butt strook the Groundsill and broak the stick,
(Reverse) but felt noe Substance, and that arme with which I strook was presently disenabled, then it  vanished away and I opened the back dore and Went out and goeing  towards the house End I Espied s'd
Bridget Bushop
in her orchard  goeing towards her house, and seing her had not power to set one foote forward but returned in againe and goeing to shutt the dore. I Againe did see that or the like creture that I before did see within  dores, in such a posture as it seemed to be agoeing to fly at mee, up-  on which I cryed. out; the whole armor of god be between mee and  You. soe itt sprang back and flew over the apple tree flinging the dust w'th its feet against my stomake, upon which I was struck dumb and soe Continued for aboute three days tyme and also shook many of the apples of, from the tree w'ch it flu over:
John louder
apearid before us this 2. dy of June 1692  and one the oath that he had taken did owne this testimony to be the truth before us the Jarris of Inquest
Jurat in Curia
(Reverse) Evidences ag't
Br. Bishop.
Jn'o Loader
+ On her Tryall
Bridget Bishop
alias Olliver denied that she knew this  deponent though #[their] the orchard of this depon't & the orchard of s'd
Bishop
Joined & they often had difference for Some yeares together
John Loader
( Essex County Court Archives, Salem - Witchcraft Salem - Witchcraft. vol. 1, no. 145. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA )