SWP No. 22.31

( Statement of
Elizar Keyser
v.
George Burroughs
)
[August 3, 1692]
Elizer Keysar
aged aboute fourty five yeares Sayth that on Thursday  last past being the fift day of this Instant moneth of May I was at  the house of
Thomas [Beadles]
in salem, and Capt Daniell King being  there also, at the same tyme, and in the Same Roome. s'd Capt
Daniell King
Asked mee Whether I would not goe up, and see
mr Burrows
and discourse with him. he being then in one of the Chambers in s'd House. I told him itt did not belong to mee, and I was  not willing to medle or make with itt, then s'd
King
sayd are you not  a Christian if you are a Christian goe [&] see him and discourse with  him, but I told him I did beleive it did not belong to such as I was to  discourse him he being a Learned man. then s'd
King
sayd I beleive  he is a Child of god, a Choice Child of god, and that God would  Clear up his Inocency; soe I told him my Opinion or feare was,  that he was, the Cheife of all the persons accused for witchcraft or the Ring Leader of them -- all, and told him also that I beleived  if he was such an one his Master meening the divell had told him  before now, what I said of him, And s'd
King
seemeing to mee to be  in a passion. I did afterwards forbeare #[The same Evening after  these words being alone in one Roome of my house and noe candle  or light being in the s'd Roome] the same afternoone I haveing Occation to be at the s'd
Beadles
house and [being] in the Chamber  where
mr George Burroughs
Keept I observed that s'd
Burroughs
did  steadfastly fix [his] eys upon mee, the same Evening being in my  own house, in a Roome without any Light I did see very strange  things appeare in the Chimney. I suppose a dozen of them. w'ch  seemed to mee to be something like Jelly that used to be in the water  and quaver with a strainge Motion, and then quickly diappeared  soone after which I did see a light up in the chimney aboute the  bigness of my hand some thing above the bar w'ch quivered  & shaked. and seemed to have a Motion upward upon Which I called  the Mayd, and she looking up into the Chimney saw the same, and  my wife looking up could not see any thing, soe I did and doe  #[very Certainly] [Concider] it was some diabolicall apperition
Mr. Elizer. Keyzer:
declared: to the Jury of Inquest that the evidence: in this paper is the truth upon oath: Aug'st 3 1692
Mercy Lewis
. also: s'd that:
Mr Borroughs
: told her that: he made lights: in
Mr Keyzers:
Chimny
Jurat in Curia by Mr Keysor](/tag/keyser_elizer.html)  Sworne also by
Eliz: Wardwell
as to the last night
( Manuscripts and Archives Division, Salem Selections, New York Public Library, New York, NY. )