SWP No. 22.14

( Deposition of
Simon Willard
and
William Wormall
v.
George Burroughs
)and Deposition of
Simon Willard
v.
George Burroughs
)
[August 3, 1692]
The: Deposition of
Simon Willard
aged:about forty two years  sayth: I being att the house of
Mr Robt Lawrance:
at falmoth in  Casco Bay: in Septemb'r 1689 s'd
Mr Lawrance
was commending
Mr George Borroughs
his strength: saying that we none of us could doe  what he could doe: for s'd he
Mr Borroughs
can hold out this gun  with one hand
Mr. Borroughs
being there: sayd I held my hand here  behind the lock: and took it up: and held it out. I s'd deponant saw
Mr Borroughs:
put his hand on the gun: to show us: how he held it  and where he held his hand:and saying there he held his hand when  he held s'd gun out: but:I saw him not hold it out then:
s'd gun was about or near seven foot barrill:and very hevie: I then tryed to hold out s'd gun with both hands: but could not do  it long enough to take sight
*Simon Willard
Jurat in Curia
Simon willard
owned:to the Jury of inquest:that the
above  written evidence: is the truth  Aug'st 3: 1692
(
Wm Wormall
v.
Geo. Burroughs
.)
Capt Wm Wormall
Sworne to the  above & that he Saw him Raise it from the ground, himselfe
Jurat in Curia
The Deposition of
Simon Willard
[aged about 42] years saith I  being at Saco in the year [1689] some: in Capt
Ed Sarjants
garison  was speaking of
mr George Borroughs
his great strength saying he  Could take:a barrill of mallasses out of a Cannoe or boat alone: and  that he Could. take it in his hands or arms out of the Cannoo or boat  and carry it and set it on the shore: and
mr Borroughs
being: there  sayd that he had carryed one barrill of molasses.or sider: out of a  cannoo that had like to have done him a displeasure: s'd
mr Borroughs
intimated: as if he did not want strength to do it but the disadvantage of the shore was such: that his foot slipping in the sand:  he had like to have strained his legg
*Simon Willard
Jurat in Curia
Simon Willard
ownd: to the Jury  of Inquest, that the above written  evidence is the truth
(Reverse)
Simon Willard
ag'st
Burroughs
( Essex County Court Archives, Salem - Witchcraft, vol. 2, no. 28. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Masssachusetts State Archives, MA. )