SWP No. 22.21

(Deposition of
Mercy Lewis
v.
George Burroughs
& Statement of
Thomas Putnam
and
Edward Putnam
) v.
George Burroughs
[August 3, 1692]
the deposistion of
Mircy Lewes
who testifieth and saith that one  the 7'th of may 1692 att evening I saw the apperishtion of
Mr. George Burroughs
whom i very well knew which did greviously  tortor me and urged me to writ in his Book and then he brought to  me a new fashon book which he did not use to bring and tould me  I might writ in that book: for that was a book that was in his studdy  when I lived with them: but I tould him I did not beleve him for  I had been often in his studdy but I never saw that book their: but  he tould me that he had severall books in his studdy which I never  saw in his studdy and he could raise the divell: and now had bewicthed
Mr. Sheppards
daughter and I asked him how he could goe  to be wicth hir now he was keept at Salem: and he tould me that  the divell was his sarvant and he sent him in his shapp to doe it then  he againe tortored me most dreadfully and threatened to kill me for he said I should not witnes against him also he tould me that he had  made
Abigaill Hoobs:
a wicth and severall more then againe he did  most dreadfully tortor me as if he would have racked me all to  peaces and urged me to writ in his book or elce he would kill me but I tould him I hoped my life was not in the power of his hand and  that I would not writ tho he did kill me: the next night he tould me  I should not see his Two wifes if he could help it because I should  not witnes agast him this 9'th may
mr Burroughs
caried me up to an exceeding high mountain and shewed me all the kingdoms of the  earth and tould me that he would give them all to me if I would writ in his book and if I would not he would thro me down and brake my neck: but I tould him they ware non of his to give and I  would not writ if he throde me down on 100 pichforks: also on  the 9'th may being the time of his examination
mr. George Burroughs
did most dreadfully torment me: and also several times sence
marce luis
uppon har oath did owne this har testimony to be the  truth be fore the Juriors for In quest:agust:3: 92.
we whose names are under writen being present hard
mircy lewes
declare what is above writen what she said she saw and hard from the  Apperishtion of
Mr George Burroughs
and also beheld hir tortors  which we cannot express for sume times we ware redy to fear that every joynt of hir body was redy to be displaced: also we perceived  hir hellish temtations by hir loud out cries
mr.Burroughs
. I will  not writ in your book tho you doe kil me
*Thomas putnam
Jurat in Curia              [*Edward] Putnam](/tag/putnam_edward.html)
(Reverse)
Mercy Lewis
ag'st
Burroughs
( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 25 )