SWP No. 22.17

(Deposition of
Ann Putnam, Jr.
v.
George Burroughs
)
[August 3, 1692]
The Deposition of
Ann putnam:
who testifieth and saith that on  20'th of April 1692 :at evening she saw the Apperishtion of a Minister  at which she was greviously affrighted and cried out oh dreadfull:  dreadfull here is a minister com:what are Ministers wicthes to: whence  com you and What is your name for I will complaine of:you tho you  be A minister: if you be a wizzard; and Immediatly I was tortored  by him being Racked and all most choaked by him: and he tempted  me to write in his book which I Refused with loud out cries and said  I would not writ in his book tho he tore me al to peaces but tould  him that it was a dreadfull thing: that he which was a Minister that  should teach children to feare God should com to perswad poor  creatures to give their souls to the divill: oh. dreadfull tell me your  name that I may know who you are: then againe he tortored me  & urged me to writ in his book: which I Refused: and then presently  he tould me that his name was
George Burroughs
and that he had  had three wives: and that he had bewitched the Two first of them to  death: and that he kiled
Mist. Lawson
because she was so unwilling  to goe from the village and also killed
Mr Lawsons
child because he  went to the eastward with Sir Edmon and preached soe; to the  souldiers and that he had bewicthed a grate many souldiers to death  at the eastword, when Sir Edmon was their. and that he had made
Abigail Hobbs
a wicth and: severall wicthes more: and he has continewed ever sence; by times tempting me to write in his book and  greviously tortoring me by beating pinching and almost choaking me severall times a day and he also tould me that he was above wicth  for he was a cunjurer
Jurat in Curia
wee whose names are under writen being present with
Ann putnam
att the time above mentioned hard hir declare what is above  writen what she said she saw and hard from the Apperishtion of
Mr. George Burroughs
: and allso beheld hir tortors:and perceived  her hellish temtations by hir loud out cries I will not I will not writ  tho you torment al days of my life:and being conversant with hir ever sence have  #[every day] seen hir tortored and complaining that
Mr. Burroughs
hirt hir.and tempts hir to writ in his Book
[Edward Putnam]?tag/putnam_edward.html)
#(
Robert Morrell
)
Thomas putnam
peter prescott
Ann Puttnam declared har above written evidence to
be the truth:before the Jury of Inquest: Aug'st 3: 92: upon her oath
Ezekiel Chever
made Oath to the latter part.of this paper
Jurat in Curia
(Reverse) Ann putnam ag'st
Burroughs
( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 24.  Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Masssachusetts State Archives, MA. )