SWP No. 26.2

(Examination of
Sarah Carrier
)
[August 11, 1692]
Sarah Carrier's confesstion Aug. 11th, 1696 [corrected 1692].
It was asked
Sarah Carrier
by the Magistrates or Justices
John Hawthorne
Esq; and others: How long hast thou been a witch? A.  Ever since I was six years old. Q. How old are you now? A. Near  eight years old, brother
Richard
says, I shall be eight years old in  November next. Q. Who made you a witch? A. My mother, she  made me set my hand to a book. Q. How did you set your hand to  it? A. I touched it with my fingers and the book was red, the paper   of it was white. She said she never had seen the black man; the place  where she did it was in
Andrew Foster's
pasture and
Elizabeth Johnson junr.
was there. Being asked who was there beside, she answered  her Aunt Toothaker and her cousin. Being asked when it was, she  said, when she was baptized. Q. What did they promise to give you?  A. A black dog. Q. Did the dog ever come to you? A. No. Q. But  you said you saw a cat once. What did that say to you? A. It said  it would tear me in pieces if I would not set my hand to the book.  She said her mother baptized her, and the devil or black man was  not there, as she saw, and her mother said when she baptized her,  thou are mine for ever and ever and amen. Q. How did you afflict  folks? A. I pinched them, and she said she had no puppets, but  she went to them that she afflicted. Being asked whether she went in  her body or her spirit, she said in her spirit. She said her mother  carried her thither to afflict. Q. How did your mother carry you  when she was in prison? A. She came like a black cat. Q. How did  you know that it was your mother? A. The cat told me so that she  was my mother. She said she afflicted Phelp's child last saturday,  and
Elizabeth Johnson
joined with her to do it. She had a wooden  spear, about as long as her finger, of Elizabeth Johnson, and she had  it of the devil. She would not own that she had ever been at the  witch meeting at the village. This is the substance.
Attest.
Simon Willard.
( Thomas Hutchinson, The History of the Province of Massachusetts-Bay, vol. 2, ed. Lawrence Shaw Mayo. (Harvard University Press, 1936). p. 34.)