SWP No. 36.2

(Complaint v.
George Jacobs, Jr.
,
Daniel Andrew
, Rebecca Jacobs,
Sarah Buckley
,
Mary Witheridge
,
Elizabeth Hart
,
Thomas Farrer
,
Elizabeth Colson
, and
Bethia Carter, Jr.
& Warrant No. 2 for the apprehension of
Elizabeth Colson
)
[May 17, 1692]
To the Marshall Generall or Lawfull dept of Constables in Boston or Eles where.
You are in theire Majests names hereby required to apprehend forthwith; or as soon as may be,
Daniell Andrew
And
George Jacobs
both of Salem Village, who Stand charged with high Suspition of Sundry acts of Witchcraft by them donne or Committed on the bodys of
Mary Walot
Abigail Williams
Mary Lewis
and Others of Salem Village Lately: where by great hurt & dammage hath been donn them. Contrary to the Laws of theire Majests who being found you are to convey unto Salem & Deliver them unto Authority in order to theire Examination Relating to the Premises and hereof are not to faile
Dated Salem  May. 17th 1692
*John Hathorne
]
*Jonathan. Corwin
By order of the Governour and Councill
You are likewise required to apprehend
[] Coloson
of Reding single woman who we are Informed is gone from Reding to Boston  or Charlstowne, And who Also stands Charged w'th Sundry acts of witchcraft by her Committed on the Bodys of
Susannah Sheldon
and Others of Salem Village. and send her also to Salem in order to her  Examination there Relateing to the Premises afores'd --
Salem.  17'th 3 mo 1692
*John Hathorne
--
*Jonathan. Corwin
--
Per ord'r of the Govern'r & Councill
Complamt beinge made to me underwritten by
William Arnold
of Readinge that the above intended and mentioned
Elizabeth Coleston
is fled from the hands of Justice for which The warr't above is  directed to aprehend her, and that she is now concealed in Bostine,  These are in Their Majesties name to require you to aprehend the  said
Elizabeth Colstone
& carry Before Lawfull Authority to be  secured till she can be carried to Salem in order to her tryall these  dated in Bostine the 10'th of Sept 1692
To the sherif of the Countie of Suffolk  or his Deputie
*John Joyliffe
Assist
( MS Ch A, vol. 2, p. 67, Rare Books & Manuscripts, Boston Public Library, Boston, MA.)