SWP No. 37.3

(The Examination of Giles Cory)
[April 19, 1692 ]
The examination of
GILES CORY
, at a Court at Salem Village, held by
John Hathorn
and
Jona. Curwin
, Esqrs. April 19, 1692.
Giles Cory
, you are brought before authority upon high suspicion of sundry acts of witchcraft; now tell us the truth in this matter.
I hope through the goodness of God I shall, for that matter I never had no hand in, in my life. Which of you have seen this man hurt you?
Mary Wolcott
,
Mercy Lewis
,
Ann Putnam, jr.
and
Abigail Williams
affirmed he had hurt them
Hath he hurt you too? speaking to
Elizabeth Hubbard
. She going to answer was prevented by a fit.
Benjamin Gold
, hath he hurt you? I have seen him several times, and been hurt after it, but cannot affirm that it was he. Hath he brought the book to any of you?
Mary Wolcott
and
Abigail Williams
and others affirmed he had brought the book to them.
Giles Cory
, they accuse you, or your appearance, of hurting them, and bringing the book to them. What do you say? Why do you hurt them? Tell us the truth. I never did hurt them. It is your appearance hurts them, they charge you; tell us what you have done. I have done nothing to damage them.
Have you ever entered into contract with the devil? I never did. What temptations have you had? I never had temptations in my life. What, have you done it without temptations?
What was the reason (said
goodwife Bibber
) that you were frighted in the cow-house? and then the questionist was suddenly seized with a violent fit.
Samuel Braybrook
,
goodman Bibber
, and his daughter, testified that he had told them this morning that he was frighted in the cow-house.
Cory
denied it. This was not your appearance but your person, and you told them so this morning: why do you deny it? What did you see in the cow-house? I never saw nothing but my cattle. Divers witnessed that he told them he was frighted. Well, what do you say to these witnesses? What was it frighted you? I do not know that ever I spoke the word in my life. Tell the truth, what was it frighted you? I do not know any thing that frighted me.
All the afflicted were seized now with fits, and troubled with pinches. Then the court ordered his hands to be tied. What, is it not enough to act witchcraft at other times, but must you do it now in the face of authority? I am a poor creature, and cannot help it. Upon the motion of his head again, they had their heads and necks afflicted.
Why do you tell such wicked lies against witnesses, that heard you speak after this manner, this very morning? I never saw any thing but a black hog. You said that you were stopt once in prayer; what stopt you? I cannot tell; my wife came towards me and found fault with me for saying living to God and dying to sin.
What was it frighted you in the barn? I know nothing frighted me there. Why here are three witnesses that heard you say so to-day. I do not remember it.
Thomas Gold
testified that he heard him say, that he knew enough against his wife, that would do her business. What was it that you knew against your wife? Why that of living to God, and dying to sin. The Marshal and Bibber's daughter confirmed the same, that he said he could say that that would do his wife's business.
I have said what I can say to that. What was that about your ox? I thought he was hipt.
What ointment was that your wife had when she was seized? You said it was ointment she made by
major Gidney's
direction. He denied it, and said she had it of
goody Bibber
, or from her direction.
Goody Bibber
said it is not like that ointment. You said you knew, upon your own knowledge, that she had it of
major Gidney
. He denied it.
Did not you say, when you went to the ferry with your wife, you would not go over to Boston now, for you should come yourself the next week? I would not go over, because I had not money. The Marshal testified he said as before.
One of his hands was let go, and several were afflicted. He held his head on one side, and then the heads of seve- ral of the afflicted were held on one side. He drew in his cheeks, and the cheeks of some of the afflicted were suckt in.
John Bibber
and his
wife
gave testimony concerning some temptations he had to make away with himself. How doth this agree with what you said, that you had no temptations? I meant temptation to witchcraft. If you can give away to self murther, that will make way to temptation to witchcraft.
Note. There was witness by several, that he said he would make away with himself, and charge his death up- on his son.
Goody Bibber
testified that the said
Cory
called said Bibber's husband, damn'd, devilish rogue. Other vile expressions testified in open court by several others.
Salem Village, April 19, 1692.
Mr. Samuel Parris
being desired to take in writing the examination of
Giles Cory
, delivered it in; and upon hearing the same, and seeing what we did see at the time of his examination, together with the charge of the afflicted persons against him, we committed him to their majesties' gaol.
John Hathorn
.
Robert Calef, More Wonders of the Invisible World. London (1700), reprinted (Salem: John D. & T.C. Cushing, Jr. Cushing & Appleton, 1823): 310-312.