SWP No. 38.12

( Deposition of
Edward Putnam
and
Ezekiel Cheever
v.
Martha Corey
)
[September 8, 1692]
The deposition of
Edward Putnum
aged about 36 years and
Ezekiel Cheever
aged about 37 years testifieth and sayeth that wee being  often complained unto by
An Putnum
that
goode Corie
did often  appear to her and tortor her by pinching and other wayes thought  it our duty to goe to her and see what shee would say to this complaint shee being in church covenant with us.
and accordingly upon the 12'th day of march about ten of the  clock we appointed to goe about the midle afternoon, and wee desired
An Putnam
to take good notice of what cloathes
goode Corie
came in that so we might see whither shee was not mistaken in the  person, and accordingly wee went to the house of
Thomas Putnum
before we went to
goode Corie
to see what
An
could say about  her cloathes. and shee told us that presently after we had #[spoken] told her that we would goe and talke with
goode Corie
shee came  and blinded her but told her that her name was
Corie
and that shee  should see her no more before it was night because she should not  tell us what cloathes shee had on and then shee would come again  and pay her off.
then wee went both of us away from the house of
Thomas Putnum
to the house of
Giles Corie
where we found go the abovesaid  Corie all alone in her house and as soone as we came in. in a smiling manner shee sayeth I know what you are come for you are come  to talke with me about being a witch but I am none I cannot helpe  peoples talking of me
Edward Putnum
answered her that it was the  afflicted person that did complain of her that was the occasion of  our coming to her. she presently replied but does shee tell you what  cloathes I have on we made her no answer to this at her first asking  where upon shee asked us again with very great eagernes but does  she tell you what cloathes I have on at which questions with that  eagernes of mind. with which shee did aske made us to thinke of  what
An Putnum
had told us before wee went to her. #[to which]  and wee told her no shee did not for shee told us that you came and  blinded her and told her that shee should see you no more before  it was night that so shee might not tell us what cloathes you had  on. shee made but litle answer to this but seemed to smile at it as if shee had showed us a pretty trick
we had a great deal of talke with her about the complaint that was  of her and how greatly the name of God and religion and thee church was dishonured by this meanes but shee seemed to be no  way conserned for any thing about it but only to stop the mouthes  of people that they might not say thus of her shee told us that shee did  not thinke that they were accused for shee said if they were wee  could not blame the devill for making witches of them for they were idle sloathfull persons and minded nothing that was good. but we  had no reason to thinke so of her for shee had made a profession of christ and rejoyced to go and hear the word of god and the like.  but we told her it was not her making an out ward profession that  would clear her from being a witch for it had often been so in the  wourld that witches had crept into the churches: much more discourse we had with her but shee made her profession a cloake to   cover all she furder told us that the devill was come down amongst  us in great rage and that God had forsaken the earth. and after much  discourse with her being to much here to be related we returned to  the house of the above said
Thomas Putnum
and we found that shee  had done as shee said shee would for shee came not to hurt the above  said Putnum as #[shee]
Ann Putnam
told us all this time but after  we were gone we understand that shee came again as shee did use to  doe before greatly afflicting of her
we doe furder testifie that upon her examination shee accordeng to  what was said of her that shee would open thee eyes of the magistrates and ministers. so shee did for shee made a most clear discovery  witchcraft for by biting her lip it was observed that the afflicted #  [children] persons were bit when that was discovered then we observed that shee would #[pinch] pinch them by niping her fingers togeather and when that was discovered and her hands held then shee afflict them by working with her foot and when that was discovered then shee pressed upon the seate with her breast and
mistress Pope
was greatly afflicted by great pressure upon her stomack
Jurat in Curia Sept. 8. 92
(Reverse)
Mr Ezekell Cheevers:
affimd: to the Jury of inquest: that  he saw:
Martha
wife of
Giles Cory
examined before the majestrates:  at which time he observed that the s'd
Cory:
some times did: bite  her lip: and when she bit her lip:
Mercy Lewis
and
Eliza'th Hubbard
and others of the afflicted persons: were bitten: also when s'd
Cory:
pinched her fingers to gether: then
mercy lewis
&
elizabeth Hubbard
and others were pinched: and #[when] according to: the  motions of s'd
martha Coryes
body: so was the afflicted persons: afflicted: this he affirmd to be true according to the best of his observation:
Mr Edward Putnam
affirmd the same: to the Jury of inquest that:
Mr Cheevers
doth.
Mr Thomas Putnam
affirmed the same: all upon oathe all of them
Ed Putman
Eliza. Cheever
Edw'd Putnam
&
[Elz.] Cheever
Deposition
( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 39. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )