SWP No. 38.2

(Examination of
Martha Corey
)
[March 21, 1692 ]
21 March 1691/2
Mr Hathorne.
You are now in the hands of Authority tell me now  why you hurt these persons
Martha Kory.
I do not.
who doth?
Pray give me leave to goe to prayer
This request was made sundry times
We do not send for you to go to prayer But tell me  why you hurt these?
I am an innocent person: I never had to do with
Witchcraft since I was born. I am a Gospel Woman
Do not you see these complain of you
The Lord open the eyes of the Magistrates & Ministers:  the Lord show his power to discover the guilty.
Tell us who hurts these children.
I do not know.
If you be guilty of this fact do you think you can  hide it.
The Lord knows --
Well tell us w't you know of this matter
Why I am a Gosple-woman, & do you think I can have  to do with witchcraft too
How could you tell then that the Child was bid to  observe what cloths you wore when some came to  speak w'th you.
Cheevers.
Interrupted her & bid her not begin with a lye  & so
Edw'd Putman
declared the matter
Mr Hath:
Who told you that
K.
He said the child said
Cheev:
you speak falsly
Then
Edw: Putman
read again
Mr H.
Why did you ask if the chld told w't cloths you wore
My husband told me the others told
Who told you about the cloaths? Why did you ask  that question.
Because I heard the children told w't cloaths the other wore
Goodm: Kory
did you tell her
The old man denyed that he told her so.
Did you not say your husband told you so
K.
H.
Who hurtes these children now look upon them.
K.
I cannot help it
H.
Did you not say you would tell the truth why you  askt that question: how come you to the knowledge --
I did but ask
You dare thus to lye in all this assembly You are now  before Authority. I expect the truth, you promised it,  Speak now & tell#[what cloths] who told you what  cloths
K.
No body
H.
How came you to know that the children would be  examined what cloth you wore
Because I thought the child was wiser, than any body  if she knew
Give an answer you said your husband told you
He told me the children said I afflicted them
How do you know w't they came for, answer me this  truly,
will you say how you came to know what they came  for
I had heard speech that the children said I #[afflicted  them] troubled them & I thought that they might  come to examine
But how did you know it
I thought they did
Did not you say you would tell the truth, who told  you w't they came for
No body
How did you know
I did think so
But you said you knew so
Child:  H Q
There is a man whispering in her ear,
What did he say to you.
We must not beleive all that these distracted children  say
Cannot #[he tell] you tell what that man whispered
I saw no body
But did not you hear
No, here was Extream agony of all the afflicted
If you expect mercy of God, you must look for it in  Gods way by confession
Do you think to find mercy by aggravating your sins
A true thing
Look for it then in Gods way
So I do
Give glory to God & confess then
But I cannot confess
Do not you see how these afflicted do charge you
We must not beleive distracted persons
Who do you improve to hurt them
I improved none
Did not you say our eyes were blinded you would  open them
Yes to accuse the innocent
Then Crossly gave in evidence
Why cannot the girl stand before you
I do not know.
What did you mean by that
I saw them fall down
It seems to be an insulting speech as if they could  not stand before you.
They cannot stand before others.
But you said they cannot stand before you
Tell me what was that turning upon the Spit by you
You beleive the Children that are distracted I saw no  spit
Here are more than two that accuse you for witchcraft
What do you say
I am innocent
Then
mr Hathorn
read farther of Croslys evidence
What did you mean by that the Devil could not stand  before you
She denyed it
3. or 4. Sober witnesses confirm'd it.
What can I do many rise up against me
Why confess.
So I would if I were guilty
Here are sober persons what do you say to them
You are a Gosple woman, will you lye
Abigail cryed out next Sab: is sacrament day, but she  shall not come there
Kory
I do not care
You charge these children with distraction: it is a note  of distraction when persons vary in a minute, but  these fix upon you, this is not the manner of dis-  traction --
When all are against me w't can I help it
Now tell me the truth will you, why did you say that  the Magistrates & Ministers eyes are blinded you would  open them
She laught & denyed it.
Now tell  us how we shall know
Who doth hurt these if you do not
Can an innocent person be guilty
Do you deny these words
Yes
Tell us who hurts these: We came to be a Terror to  evil doers
You say you would open our eyes we are blind
If you say I am a Witch
You said you would show us
She denyed it.
Why do you not now show us
I cannot tell: I do not know
What did you strike the maid at
Mr Tho: Putmans
with
I never struck her in my life
Here are two that see you strike her with an iron rod.
I had no hand in it
Who had
Do you beleive these children are bewitcht
They may for ought I know I have no hand in it.
You say you are no Witch, may be you mean you  never Covenanted with the Devil. Did you never deal  w'th any familiar
No never
What bird was that the children spoke of
Then Witnesses, spoke
What bird was it.
I know no bird.
It may be: you have engaged you will not confess. but  God knows.
So he doth
Do you beleive you shall go unpunished
I have nothing to do w'th withcraft
Why was you not willing your husband should come  to the former Session here
But he came for all
Did not you take the Saddle off
I did not know what it was for
Did you not know w't it was for
I did not know that it would be to any benefit
Some body said that she would not have them help to  find out witches.
Did you not say you would open our eyes why do  you not
I never thought of a Witch
Is it a laughing matter to see these afflicted persons
She denyed it
Severall prove it
Ye are all against me & I cannot help it
Do not you beleive there are Witches in the Countrey
I do not know that there is any
Do not you know that
Tituba
Confessed it
I did not hear  her speak
I find you will own nothing without severall witnesses  & yet you will deny for all
It was noted w'n she bit her lip severall of the afflic-  ted were bitten
When she was urged upon it that she bit her lip saith  she what harm is there in it.
Mr. Noyes
.
I beleive it is apparent she practiseth Witchcraft in  the congregation there is no need of images
What do you say to all these thing that are apparent
If you will all go hang me how can I help it.
Were you to serve the Devil ten years tell how many
She laught
The Children cryed there was a yellow bird with her
When
Mr Hathorn
askt her about it she laught
When her hands were at liberty the afflicted persons  were pincht
Why do not you tell how the Devil comes in your  shape & hurts these; you said you would
How can I know how
Why did you say you would show us
She laught again
What book is that you would have these children  write in
What book: were should I have a book I showed them  none, nor have none nor brought none.
The afflicted cryed out there was a man whispering in  her ears.
What book did you carry to
Mary Walcott
I carryed none: if the Devil appears in my shape
Then
Needham
Said that Parker some time agoe  thought this woman was a Witch
Who is your God
The God that made me
Who is that God
The God that made me
What is his name
Jehova
Do you know any other name
God Almighty
Doth he tell you that you pray to that he is God Almighty
Who do I worship but the God that made [me]
How many Gods are there
One
How many persons
Theree
Cannot you say so there is one God in three blessed  persons
(then she was troubled)
Do not you see these children & women are rational  & sober as their neighbours when your hands are  fastened Immediately they were seized with fitts  & the standers by
[Partially illegible on account of fold in paper.]  said she was squeezing her fingers her hands being  eased by them that held them on purpose for triall  Quickly after the Marshall said she hath bit her lip  & immediately the afflicted were in an uproar
[torn] why you hurt these, or who doth
She denyeth any hand in it
Why did you say if you were a Witch you should have no pardon.
Because I am a Woman
Salem Village March the 21't 1691/2
The Rever't
mr Sam'll parris
being desired to take in wrighting the  Examination of
Martha Cory
, hath returned it as afores'd Upon hearing the afores'd and seing what wee did then see, togather with the  charges of the persons then present Wee Committed
Martha Cory
the wife of
Giles Cory
of Salem farmes, unto the Goale in Salem as p[er]  mittimus then Given out
*John Hathorne
*Jonathan. Corwin
{  Assis'ts (Reverse)
Martha Kory
Exam
( Essex Institute Collection, no. 1, Peabody Essex Museum, James Duncan Phillips Library, Rowley, MA )