SWP No. 44.1

(Examination of
Rebecca Eames
)
[August 19, 1692 ]
Rebecca: Eames:
examined. before Salem Majestrats: Aug'st  19: 1692
She owned she had bin in the snare a monthe: or 2: and  had bin perswaded to it: 3 monthes: & that the devil: apeared to  her like a colt. very ugly: the first: time: but she would not own:  that she had bin baptized by him. she did not know but that the  devil did perswade her: to renounce god & christ & folow his wicked wayes & that she did take his Counsell: and that she did afflict
Timo: Swan:
she did not know but that the devil might ask: her body & soul: & she knows not but that she did give him soul & body: after  ward she s'd she did do itt & that she would for sake god & his works: and the devil promised her: to give her powr: to avenge her selfe on them that offended her afterward she s'd the devil apeared to her  7 year agoe: & that he had tempted her to ly and had made her to afflict persons but she could not tell their names that she first  afflicted: Q who came w'th the devil when he made you a witch  A: a ragged girl: they came to gether and they perswaded me to afflict: & I afflicte mary warin & an other fayr face: it is abo't a quarter of a year agoe: I did it by sticking of pins. but did you afflict Swan: yes but I am sorry for it: Q where had you your spear A I  had nothing but an all but was it with yo'r body or spirit you came to hurt these mayds: A with my spirit: Q but can you ask them  forgivnes: A: I wil fall down on my knees: to ask it: of them: She  would not own: that she signd the devils book when he askd her  body & soul: but he would have had her done it nor. to a burch  Rign: nor nothing: she s'd the devil was in the Shape of a hors  when: he caried her to afflict: but would not own any body went with her to afflict but the afflicted s'd her son Dan'll went with her:  to afflict: Q did you not say: the Devil babtized yo'r son Daniell. A he told  me so: but: did you not touch the book nor lay yo'r hand on book  nor paper: A I layd my hand on nothing without it was a peice of board: and did you lay yo'r hand on the board when he bid you. A yes:
mary Lascy:
s'd she had given her son Dan'll to the devil; at  2 years old: & that her aperition told her so: but: she could not remember it: she was bid to take warin & lasy by the hand & beg forgivnes & did so: & they forgave her. she s'd if she had given  her son Dan'll to the devil it was in an Angry fitt she did not know  but she might do it nor I do not know he is a wich but I am afrayd  he is: mary lascy saw her son Dan'll stand before her & s'd Dan'll  bid his mother not confess he was a Wich: his mother: did not know  she s'd but: she might se him for she saw a burlling: thing before  her:
Mary lascy
s'd she had babtized her: son Dan'll & that she had  bin babtized in five mile Pond: she s'd the reason she feared Dan'll  was a witch: was because he used dredfull bad words when he was  Angry: and bad wishes being asked: the #[s'd her] age of Dan'll:  s'd he was 28 years old: she was told she had bin long a witch: then if she gave her son to the devil at 2 years old she owned she had  bin discontented since she had bin in league: with the devil: she  knew not but the devil might come once a day: lik a mous: or ratt:  she s'd she knew
Sarah parker
but did not know her to be a wich:   but she heard she had bin crosd in love & the devil had come to her  & kisd her
(Reverse) who was with you when you afflicted
Swan:
A. no body  but my son Dan'll he was there when I came: theether: she would  have Dan'll perswaded to confes: but was told she were: best to perwade him becaus she knew him to be a wich: she was askt if she was at the execution: she was at the hous below: the hill: she saw a few folk: the woman of the hous had a pin stuck into her foot: but:  she s'd she did not doe it: but how do you afflict: A I Consent to  it: but have you bin a wich 26 years: A no I can remember but 7:  years & have afflicted: about a quarter of a year: but: if you have  bin a wich so long: why did you not afflict before seing you promised to serv the devil A: others: did not Afflict before: and the  devil: did not require it: but: doth not the devil threaten: #[to tare] you #[in peices:] if you not do what he ses: A yes he thretens  to tere me in peices but did you use: to goe to meeting on sabath  dayes: yes: but not so often as I should have done: what shape did  the devil Com in when you layd yo'r hand on the board:
A. I cannot tell except it was a mous #[or rat]
( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 52.Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )