SWP No. 45.16

(Deposition of
Elizabeth Hubbard
v.
Mary Esty
,
John Willard
,  &
Mary Witheridge
)
[August 4, 1692]
The Deposistion of
Elizabeth Hubburt
who testifieth and saith  I being caryed up to Constable Jno. putnams house on the 20th of may 1692: to se
Mircy lewes
who laid speachless and in a sad condition: I saw there the apperishtions of gooddy estick the very  same woman that was sent whom the other day: and
Jno. willard
and
mary witherridge
Afflecting and tortoring of
Mircy lewes
in a  most dreadfull maner.which did affright me most greviously: and  immediatly
gooddy Estick
did sett upon me most dreadfully and  tortored me almost Ready to choak me to death and urged me  vehemently to writ in hir book
Sworne Salem Village  May the 23d: 1692.
Before us
*John Hathorne
*Jonathan. Corwin
{  Assists.
we whose names are under writen heaving been along with
Elizabeth . Huburd
this time above mentioned herd hir declare what is  above writen and we read it to hir when we came away and she  said it was all true this 21 may 1692
Thomas putnam
John.putnam Jun
Jurat in Curia Sept'r. 9th. 1692
Eliz Hubburd
further testifieth that on the 23 may 1692 being  the last day of the examination of
mary Estick
she did most greviously  afflect and torment me dureing the time of hir Examination allso  dureing the time of her examination I saw
mary Estick
most greviously  aflect and torment
mary walcott
mercy lewes
Abigail williams
and
ann putnam
by twisting and all most choaking them to death  and I verily beleve in my heart that mary estick is a most dreadfull  wicth and that she hath very often afflected and tormented me and  parsons above named by hir acts of wicthcraft
Eliz. Hubbard
declared the two above written evidences: in this paper
before the Jury of Inquest: to be the truth:upon oath: August 4:1692
(Reverse)
El. Hubbard
Contr.
Easty
( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 285. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )