SWP No. 45.17

( Deposition of
Samuel Abby
& Testimony of
Sarah Trask
v.
Mary Esty
,
John Willard
,  &
Mary Witheridge
)
[+ May 23, 1692]
The Deposistion of
Samuell Abby
aged about 45 years who  testifieth and saith that on the 20th of may 1692 I went to the  house. of constable Jno. putnam:about 9 a clock in the moring and  when I came there:
Mircy lewes
lay on the bed in a sad condition and  continewing speachless for about an hour: the man not being at  whom: the woman desired me to goe to
Tho: putnams
to bring
Ann putnam
to se if she could se who it was that hurt
mircy lewes:
accordingly  I went: and found
Abigail williams
along with
ann putnam
:  and brought them both to se
mircy lewes:
and as they ware a goeing  along the way both of them said that they saw the Apperishtion of
Goody Estick
and said it was the same woman that was sent whom  the other day: and said also that they saw the Apperishtion of the  other woman that appered with goody estick the other day.and both  of them allso said that the Apperishtion of
goody Estick
tould them  that now she was afflecting of
mircy lewes:
and when they came to
Mircy lewes
both of them said that they saw the Apperishtion of
goody Estick
and
Jno. willard
and
mary witheridge
afflecting the  body of
mircy lewes:
and I continewing along with
mircy
who continewed in a sad condition the greatest part of the day being in such  tortors as no toungue can express: but not able to spake: but at last  said Deare lord Receive my soule and againe said Lord let them not  kill me quitt, but att last she came to hir self for a little whille and  was very sensable and [and] then she said that
goody estick
said  she would kill hir before midnight because she did not cleare hir  so as the Rest did. then againe presently she fell very bad and cried  out pray for the salvation of my soule for they will kil me
Jurat in Curia  Sep'r. 9th. 92
Sarah Trask
ageed about 19 years testifieth that she went along  with
Abigaill williams
and #[Mircy Lewis]
Ann putnam
and also hard them say what is above writen they said: and also hard
mircy lewes
declare what is above writen she said.
(Reverse)
Sam Abbey
( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol 1, no. 290. Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )