SWP No. 47.2

(Examination of
Martha Emerson
)
[July 23, 1692 ]
Martha Emorson
was examined before
Maj'r Gedney
& other their  Majest'es Justices in Salem July 23: 1692 .
Martha Emorson
you are here accused for afflicting: of
Mary Warin
&
Mary Lasey:
by witchcraft: what say you: Answer: I never saw  them.
Richard Carrier:
s'd he see her hurt them both yester day,  but he had never seen her at the witch meeting: but
Mary lasey
sen'r s'd that she had seen both
Martha Emorson
& her mother at the witch meeting.
Mary Warin
&
Mary Lacy
fell down when s'd
Martha Emorson
looked on them: &
Mary Lasy
was presently well  when s'd
Emorson
took her by the wrist: two more also fell down  with her looking on them: but: she denyed that she knew anything  of witchcraft.
Mary Warin
s'd: that s'd
Emersons
spectre told her: that: she had rid  a man with an inchanted bridle: &
Matthew Herriman:
was called:  to say whether he had bin ridden: so or no: who answered. that last  Monday night: he was in a strange condision: and heard it rain  & blow: as I thought: but in the morning there had bin no rain: but  in the morning my tongue was sore & I could not speak till son two hours high: &
Martha Emorson
came to our house that morning: as  soon as it was light for fire:
Mary: Warin
being in a long Dumb fitt;  signified by holding up her hand that this
Harriman
was the man  that she s'd
Emorson
s'd she had ridden: but
Emorson
s'd she knew  nothing of it
Emerson
was told: that her father: had s'd: he had  tought his Daughter Martha so that she had killed a witch: and:  that was to take the afflicted persons water & put in in a glass or  bottle: & sett it into an oven:
Emorson
owned she had [kept] a  womans urin: in a glass.
Emorson
was asked: who hindred her from confessing she answered that her
Aunt Carrier
&
good wife Green
of Haverill: were before her:
good wife Green:
was angry  with her: because she would not be like her selfe for
Green
had  Inticed her a fortnight: to afflict & she would not: she s'd
Greens wife
would have her be of: that number: she was asked what Number: she s'd the number of Devils: she complaynd: that:
Greens wife
& her
Aunt Carrier:
took her by the throat: & that they would not  lett her Confess. she s'd
Greens wife
had a pigg that use to follo  her: but after ward she Denyed all. & s'd: what she had s'd was in hopes to have favour: & now she could not Deny god: that had keept  her from that sin: & after s'd though he slay me I will trust in him.
(Reverse) Mar. Emerson Exam.
Mary Warran
Owned before
the Grand jury Jan'y 10th 1692 that
Martha Emerson
had afflicted her
severall times before  & at this time when she was presant with us
Attests
*Robert Payne
foreman:
( Suffolk Court Files vol. 32, docket 2708 p. 32, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives. Boston, MA. )