SWP No. 63.2

(Examination of
Sarah Good
, as Recorded  by
Ezekiell Chever
)
[February 1692]
The examination of
Sarah Good
before the Worshipfull assts
John Harthon
and
Jonathan Curren
(H.)
Sarah Good
what evil spirit have you familiarity with (S G) none (H) have you made no contract with the devil, (g) good answered no (H) why doe you hurt these children (g) I doe not hurt them. I scorn it. (H) who doe you imploy then to doe it (g) I imploy no body, (H) what creature do you imploy then, (g) no creature but I am falsely accused (H) why did you go away muttering from mr Parris his house (g) I did not mutter but I thanked him for what he gave my child (H) have you made no contract with the devil (g) no (H) desired the children all of them to look upon her, and see, if this were the person that had hurt them and so they all did looke upon her and said this was one of the persons that did torment them -- presently they were all tormented. (H)
Sarah good
doe you not see now what you have done why doe you not tell us the truth, why doe you thus torment these poor children (g) I doe not torment them, H who do you imploy then (g) I imploy nobody I scorn it (H) how came they thus tormented, (g) what doe I know you bring others here and now you charge me with it (H) why who was it. (g) I doe not know but it was some you brought into the meeting house with you (H) wee brought you into the meeting house (g) but you brought in two more (H) Who was it then that tormented the children (g) it was osburn (H) what is it that you say when you goe muttering away from persons houses (g) if I must tell I will tell (H) doe tell us then (g) if I must tell I will tell, it is the commandments I may say my commandments I hope (H) what commandment is it (g) if I must tell you I will tell, it is a psalm (H) what psalm (g) after a long time shee muttered over some part of a psalm (H) who doe you serve (g) I serve God (H) what God doe you serve (g) the god that made heaven and earth though shee was not willing to mention the word God her answers were in a very wicked, spitfull manner reflecting and retorting aganst the authority with base and abusive words and many lies shee was taken in.it was here said that her housband had said that he was afraid that shee either was a witch or would be one very quickly the worsh
mr Harthon
asked him his reason why he said so of her whether he had ever seen any thing by her he answered no not in this nature but it was her bad carriage to him and indeed said he I may say with tears that shee is an enimy to all good.
(Salem Village March the 1t 1691/2
( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 no. 11, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archive, MA. )