SWP No. 72.11

( Testimony of
Samuel Phillips
&
Edward Payson
for
Elizabeth How
)
[June 3, 1692. ]
The testimony of
Samuel Phillips
aged about 67, minister of the word of God in Rowly, who sayth, that
mr payson
(minister of gods word alsoe in Rowley) and my self went, being desired, to
Samuel pearly
of ipswich to se their young daughter who was viseted with strang fitts & in her fitts (as her father & mother affirmed) did mention
good wife How
the wife of
James How Junior
of Ipswich, as if she was in the house & did afflict her: when we were in the house the child had one of her fitts but made noe mention of
goodwife how;
& when the fitt was over & she come to herself,
goodwife How,
went to the child and took her by the hand & askt her whether she had ever done her any hurt And she answered no never and if I did complain of you in my fitts I know not that I did soe: I further can affirm upon oath that young
Samuel Pearly
, Brother to the afflicted girle looking out of a chamber window (I and the afflicted child being without dores together) and say to his sister say
goodwife How
is a witch, say she is a witch & the child spake not a word that way, but I lookt up to the window where the youth stood & rebuked him for his boldness to stirr up his sister to accuse the said
goodw: How
where as she had cleared her from doing any hurt to his sister in both our hearing, & I added noo wonder that the child in har fitts did mention
Goodwife How,
when her nearest relations were soe frequent in expressing theire suspitions in the childs hearing when she was out of her fitts, that the sayd
Goodwif How,
was an Instrument of mischeif to the child:
Rowley  3 June 1692
*Samuel phillips
I
Edward Paison
of the Town aboves'd tho' present at the place & time afores'd, yet cannot evidence in all the particulars mentioned: Thus much is yet in my remembrance viz't being in the aboves'd
Pearley's
house some considerable time before the s'd
Goodw. How
came in; their afflicted Daughter, upon something that her Mother spake to her with tartness, presently fell into one of her usuall strange fitts, during which, she made no mention (as I observed) of the above s'd
How
her name, or any thing relating to her some time after, the s'd
How
came in, when s'd Girl had recovered her capacity, her fitt being over, s'd
How
took s'd Girl by the hand, asked her whether she had ever done her any hurt,? the child answerd no never; with several expressions to that purpose which I am not able particularly to recount, &c.
Rowley,  June 3 -- 1692.
*Edward Paison
(Reverse)
Mr. Philips
&
mr Paison
in behalfe of
Eliz: How
( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 no. 326, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )