SWP No. 72.16

( Three Depositions of
Mary Cummings
v.
Elizabeth How
)
[June 27, 1692 ]
Jun 27 1692
The disposition of
mary commings
the wif of
isaac commins sen'r
aged about sixty yers or thare abouts who teseifieth and saith my hus band not being at home I was sent to by som parsons of ipswegent to me for to have me to write what I cold say of
James how jun'r
his wife
elesbeth
conscarning her life or conversation and that I would say what I cold say for or against her when the said
hows
wife sought to ajoyn with [the] the church at ipsweg and I spoke to my son Isaac to write that we hade used no brimston nor oyl nor no combustabls to give to our maer becaus thare was a report that the said
hows
wife hade said [thay] we hade givin the mear brimston and oyl and the like and a short time after I hade writen my testemony con sarning this
hows
wife my son Isaac his maer was mising that he could not find her in to or thre days. and in a short time after my son isaacs maer came in sight not fare from the hous and my son isaac praid me to go out and look on his maer when I came to her he asked me what I thought on her and I said if he wold have my thoughts i could not compair it to nothing elec but that she was riden with a hot bridil #[I said also to isaac that I hered that the said] for she hade divirses bruses as if she had bin over rocks an much wronged and where the bridel went was as if it hade bin burnt with a #[reede] hot bridel then I bide isaac take the mare and have her up amongst #[our] the nagbours that people might see her for I hered that
James how jun'r
or his wife or both hade said that we kept up our maer that popel might not see her and isaac did show his maer to saveril and then the said how as i hered did report that isac had riden to Lin spring and caryed his gairl and so surfited the maer the which was not so
Mary Comins
owned this har testimony to be truth before the Juryars for Inquest: this. 29 of June: 1692                                                             Jurat in Curia
June 27, 1692
I mary comins ageed abut sixty yers or that abouts the wife of
isaac comins syne'r
I being at my naigbours sam parlys hous samuel parlys daugter hannah being in a straing condition asked me if i did  not see
goodee how
in the hous going round upon the wall as the gur[l] dricted her finger along round in won place and another of the hous #[and the girl asked me if i did nott] I teled her no I loked as dilegently as i cold and i could see nothing of her the gurls mother then did chek her and told her she was alwas full of such Kind of notions and bid her hold her toung then she told her mother she would belive it one day and somthing mor which shold have bin mantioned as the gaur[l] poynted to show me whare goode how was she asked me if I did not se her go out at that crak which she poynted at
Mary Comins
owned this har testimony one har oath to be the truth before the Juriars of Inquest: this 29. of June: 92
Jurat in Curia
Jun 27 1692
The disposition of
mary commins
aged about sixty. yers or there abouts ho testefieth and saieth that abovE too yeres agon I went to viset my naigbour
sherins
wife and she told me that
James how jun'r
had bin thare to give her a viset and he did sharply talk to her asking her what hopes she hade of her salveation her answer was to him that she did bild her hopes upon suer rock Jesus christ this the said
serins
wife did tell me and she told me also that she had never talked of the said how or his wife but she was the wors for it after wards. and she said also when she lay sick of the same sikness whareof she dyed that the said how would come som times in to the roome to see her but she could not tell how to bare to se him nor that he should be in the hous.
Mary Comins
. ownid. that this har testimony on har oath before the Juryars for Inques: this 29. of June 1692
Jurat in Curia
( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 no. 331, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )