SWP No. 76.3

(Examination of
John Jackson, Sr.
)
[August 27, 1692]
Jno Jaxon sen'r
examined Before their Majest's Justices In salem August 27th 1692
Jno. Hawthorne
Esq'rs & others
The afflicted persons fell into a bad fitt: before s'd
Jaxon
came into the room & s'd he is coming Ques.
Jno Jaxon
why do you afflict these persons A I desire to Cry to God to keep both me & mine from this sin: I never did it since the day I was born.
Jno Jaxon
you are here accused for hurting
Martha Spreag
&
Rose foster
by witchcraft A. I am inocent.
Mary Warren
was asked if ever s'd Jaxon had afflicted: her: she s'd yes.
Martha Spreag:
is this: the man that afflicted you: A. Yes he hurt my throat last night He hath afflicted me: ever since I came Downe with the three: that Confessed one night it was s'd to s'd
Jaxon
if you be  Inocent: You can look upon them that are afflicted but:
Martha Spreag
was struck Down: when he looked: & was Recovered out of her fitt with s'd Jaxons touch of his hand: the like was done by
Mary Warin
it was sayd to him: look how you afflict them: but he s'd no indeed I never Did it but: here is witnes against you: &
Hannah Post
was Called: but s'd Jaxon s'd he never: knew nothing of it: but
Hannah Post:
sayd she had seen him at the witch meeting at Andover[r] & that he Drank there: she sayd: that he & his son was in hast to be gone: and away: they went: s'd
Post
was a little afflicted when s'd
Jaxon
looked on her: for he was to look right on her: when he was bid: but looked downward:
Mary Walcot:
sayd. she Saw s'd
Jaxon
at: the witch meeting at Chandlers of Andover: but he never had hurt her: but was at that meeting where:
Mr Borroughs:
had exorted them: and puld off his hat & took his leave of them & s'd
Jaxon
took his leav of
Mr Borroughs:
Ann Putnam
: s'd: & hoped he should see him. again: but
Mr Borroughs
thout not: but
Mary Walcot
&
Ann Putnam
both fell into a fitt:
Sarah Bridges
was brought in: & fell into a fitt and s'd Jaxon took her by: the hand & she was well presently: but s'd she knew not the man:
Mary Lasey
was asked: doe you know this man: s'd yes I saw him last night: & fell into a fitt:
Richard Carrier
s'd he saw s'd Jaxon last night: but Jaxon s'd he was at work at Capt. Wicoms of Rowley last night he s'd these persons was not in their Right mind:
Mary Warin
was struck down & s'd she was struck down & s'd she was struck on the head: a bloud was seen to Come: through her head cloathes Jaxon was charged with acting wich craft before them but he s'd he did it not nor would not own that ever the Devil had babtized him but when s'd
Jaxon
was carried out the afflicted was much hurt: &
Rich'd Carrier
was halled almost und'r the bed.
I underwritten being appoynted by authority to testify in wryting the above examination Doe testify upon oath taken in court that this is true coppy of the substance of it to the best of my Knowledge. 7th July 1692/3
*Simon Willard
owned before the Grand Jury
7. Jan'y: 1692  *Robert Payne foreman:
( Suffolk Court Files, docket no. 2704, p. 27, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives. Boston, MA )