SWP No. 79.2

(Warrant No. 2 for the apprehension of
Daniel Andrew
and
George Jacobs, Jr.
, & Warrant No. 3 for the Apprehension of
Elizabeth Colson
)
[May 17, 1692]
To the Marshall Generall or Lawfull dept of Constables in Boston or eles where.
You are in theire Majests names hereby required to apprehend forthwith; or as soon as may be,
Daniell Andrew
And
George Jacobs
both of Salem Village, who Stand charged with high Suspition of Sundry acts of Witchcraft by them donne or Committed on the bodys of
Mary Walot
Abigail Williams
Mary Lewis
and Others of Salem Village Lately: where by great hurt & dammage hath been donn them. Contrary to the Laws of theire Majests who being found you are to convey unto Salem & Deliver them unto Authority in order to theire Examination Relating to the Premises and hereof are not to faile
Dated Salem  May. 17th 1692
*John Hathorne
]
*Jonathan. Corwin
By order of the Governour
You are likewise required to apprehend [Elizabeth]
Coleson
of Reding single woman who we are Informed is gone from Reding to Boston or Charlstowne, And who Also stands Charged wth sundry acts of witchcraft by her Committed on the Bodys of
Susannah Sheldon
and Others of Salem Village. and send her also to Salem in order to her Examination there Relateing to ye premises aforesd
B Salem. 17th 3mo. 1692
*John Hathorne
*Jonathan Corwin
order of ye Gouerno & Councill
Complaint beinge made to me underwritten by william Arnold of Readinge that
the aboue intended and mentioned Elizabeth Coleston is fled from the hands of Justice
for which the warrt aboue is directed to aprehhend her, and that [she] is now conceated in
Bostone, These are in theire Majesties name to require you to aprehend the said Elizabeth
Colstone & carry Before Lawfull Authority to be secured till she can be carried to Salem in
order to her tryall there dated in Bostone the 10th of sept 1692
To the sherif of the Countie of Suffolke or his deputie
*John Joyliffe
Assist
( MS Ch A, vol. 2, p. 67, Rare Books & Manuscripts, Boston Public Library, Boston, MA. )