SWP No. 86.2

(Examination of
Mary Lacey, Sr.
)
[July 21, 1692 ]
21 July 1692.  A part of
Goody Laceyes
2d Examination and confession to be added to the first.
Before Mag'r
Gedney
Mr Hauthorn
&
Mr Corwin.
When
Goody foster
was upon examination the second tyme,
Goody Lacey
was brought in also, who said to her mother foster , we have forsaken Jesus christ, and the devil hath got hold of us, how shall we get cleare of this evil one:
she confesses that her mother foster,
Goody Carryer
& herself rid upon a pole to Salem Village meeting, and that the pole broke alittle way off from the village she sayth further that about 3 or 4 years agoe she saw
Mistress Bradburry
Goody How
and
Goody Nurse
Baptised by the old Serpent at newburry falls And that he dipped theire heads in the water and then said thay wer his and he had power over them, she sayes there were six baptised at that tyme who were some of the chieff or heigher powers, and that there might be neare about a hundred in company at that tyme. It being asked her, after what maner she went to Newberry falls answered the devil carryed her in his armes, And sayth further that if she doe take a ragg, clout or any such thing and Roll it up together And Imagine it to represent such and such a persone; Then whatsoever she doth to that Ragg or clout so rouled up, The persone represented thereby will be in lyke manner afflicted.
It being again asked her if what she had said was all true, she answered affirmatively, confessing also that
Andrew Carryer
was witch
She confesses that she afflicted
Timothy Swan
in Compa with
Mistress Bradbury
Goody Carryer
Richard Carryer
and her own daughter mary lacey, They afflicted him with an Iron spindle and she thinks they did once with a tobacko pipe
She said she was in
Swans
chamber and it being ask'd which way she got in answered the devil helpt her in at the window, she also remembers the afflicting of
Ballards wife
, and that
Rich'd Carryer
was ther also
She said further the devil take away her memory and will not let her remember.
(Reverse)
Mary Lacey
further confession
part of the Examination of
Mary Lacey
--
( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft, Vol. 2, no. 51,