SWP No. 92.3

(Examination of
Susannah Martin
, Draft Copy by the Rev. Samuel Paris )
[May 2, 1692 ]
The Examination of
Susan: Martin.
2. May 1692
As soon as she came in Many had fits.
Do you know this Woman
Abig: Williams
saith it is
Goody Martin
she hath hurt me often. Others by fits were hindered from speaking.
Eliz: Hubbard
said she hath not been hurt by her.
John Indian
said he hath not seen her
Mercy Lewes
pointed to her & fell into a little fit.
Ann Putman
threw her Glove in a fit at her
The examinant laught.
What do you laugh at it?
Well I may at such folly.
Is this folly? The hurt of these persons?
I never hurt man woman or child.
Mercy Lewes
cryed out she hath hurt me a great many times, & pulls me down
Then
Martin
laught againe
Mary Walcot
saith this woman hath hurt me a great many times.
Sus: Sheldon
also accused her of afflicting her.
What do you say to this?
I have no hand in Witchcraft.
What did you do? Did not you give your consent?
No, never in my life.
What ails this people?
I do not know.
But w't do you think?
I do not desire to spend my judgm't upon it.
Do not you think they are Bewitcht?
No. I do not think they are
Tell me your thoughts about them.
Why my thoughts are my own, when they are in, but when they are out they are anothers.
You said their Master -- who do you think is their Master?
If they be dealing in the black art, you may know as well as I.
Well what have you done towards this?
Nothing.
Why it is you, or your appearance.
I cannot help it.
That may be your Master.
I desire to lead my self according to the #[will of God] word of God.
Is this according to Gods word?
If I were such a person I would tell you the truth.
How comes your appearance just now to hurt these.
How do I know?
Are not you willing to tell the Truth?
I cannot tell: He that appeared in sams shape a glorifyed saint can appear in any ones shape.
Do you beleive these do not say true?
They may lye for ought I know
May not you lye?
I dare not tell a lye if it would save my life.
Then you will speak the Truth.
[lost =I] I have spake nothing else, I would do them any good.
I do not think you have such affections for them, whom just now you insinuated had the Devill for their Master.
Eliz: Hubbard
was afflicted & then the Marshal w'o was by her said she pincht her hand.
Severall of the afflicted cryed out they [lost =saw] her upon the beam.
Pray God discover you, if you be guilty.
Amen. Amen. A false tongue will never make a guilty person.
You have been a long time coming to the Court to day, you can come fast enough in the night.said
Mercy Lewes
.
No, sweet heart, said the examinat, And then
Mercy Lewes
, & all, or many of the rest, were afflicted
John Indian
fell into a violent fit, & said it was that woman, she bites, she bites, and then she was biting her lips
Have you not compassion for these afflicted?
No, I have none
Some cryed out there was the black man with her, &
Goody Bibber
who had not accused her before confirmed it.
Abig: William
upon trial could not come near her -- Nor
Goody Bibber
. Nor
Mary Walcot.
John Indian
cryed he would Kill her if he came near her, but he was flung down in his approach to her
What is the reason these cannot come near you?
I cannot tell. It may be the Devil bears me more malice than an other
Do not you see how God evidently discovers you?
No, not a bit for that.
All the congregation think so.
Let them think w't. they will.
What is the reason these cannot come near you?
I do not know but they can if they will or else if you please, I will come to them.
What is the black man whispering to you?
There was none whispered to me
(Reverse) The Examination of
Susannah Martin
( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 174, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )