SWP No. 92.20

( Depositions of
Joseph Knight
&
Elizabeth Clark
v.
Susannah Martin
)
[June 29, 1692]
The Depossittion of
Joseph knight
aged about 40 yers
This Deponant doe testifie & saye that on the 20th Daye of October or thereabouts in the yere of o'r Lord 1686
Nathan'll Clarke Junj'r
: of Newbery together with this Deponant going out into the woods together to fetch up horses there met with
Susana Martaine
of Amsbury with a litle Dog Runing by hir syde & in my sight shee tooke up s'd Dog under her arme but comeing up neere to hir she had a Kegg or a halfe feirkin under the same arme; this Deponant then lookt hir in the face & told hir that that kegg was a litle Dogg but nowe
Nath'el. Clarke
said soe it was: & then passing from hir we found our horses & brought them to a small Causwaye but Could not git them over but there being a small Knowle of land here: our horsses ran round about it the greatist parte of that daye we oftn bringing them up to the Causwaye but then they turned to that knowle & Ran about it the same waye but at length there Came a young man with a yoak of oxen to goe over the Causwaye who with some difficaultie got them over for altho the Causwaye was very good yet one of the oxen hung back as though he were frighted but at length were forct over & then we got over our horses.
Joseph knight
ownid this his tistimony
to be the truth: on his oath. before the Juryors of Inquest
this 29. of June: 1692
Elizabeth Clark
who then was the wife of the aboves'd.
Nathaniell Clarke
doe testifie that when my s'd husband
Nath'll: Clarke
Came home he told me
This Deponant the matter mentioned in
Joseph knights
testimony & he related to me the wholl of the Matter & all the Sircumstances related in s'd testimony: excepting that my husband told
Joseph knight
that the Kegg under
Goodwif martins
arme was or had bin a dogg This Deponant doe further testie that
goodwife martain
aboves'd. Came to our house the same daye mentiond  in
Joseph knights
testimony before my husband Came home & Comeing into the house our dog bit hir by the leg as she said whereupon She being angry said that he was a Churll lik his master
Elizabeth Clark
ownid this har testimo to be the truth: on the oath which she had taken be fore: the Jury for Inquest: this 29. of June 1692
(Reverse)
El. Clarke
(Reverse)
Joseph Knight
elizabeth clark
S. Martin
( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1 nos. 190,192 Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, on deposit James Duncan Phillips Library, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, MA. )