SWP No. 95.1

(Examination and Mittimus of
Sarah Osborne
, as Reorded by John Hathorne )
[March 1, 1692 ]
Salem Village
March the 1'st 1691/2
Sarah Osburne
the wife of
Alexander Osburne
of Salem Village. brought before us by
Joseph Herrick
Constable in Salem, to Answer
Joseph Hutcheson
&
Thomas putnam
&c yeomen in s'd Salem Village Complainants on behalfe of theire Majest's against s'd
Sarah Osburne
, for Suspition of Witchcraft by her Committed, and thereby much Injury done to the Bodys of
Elizabeth parris
Abigail Williams
Anna putnam
and
Elizabeth Hubert
all of Salem Village aforesaid, according to theire Complaint, according to a Warrant, Dated Salem febu'y 29'th 1691/2
Sarah #[Good] Osburne
upon Examination denyed the matter of fact (viz) that she ever understood or used any Witchcraft or used any Witchcraft, or hurt any of the aboves'd children.
The children abovenamed being all personally present accused her face to face which being don, they ware all hurt, afflicted and tortured very much: which being over and thay out of theire fitts thay sayd that said Sarah Osburne did then Come to them and hurt them,
Sarah Osburn
being then keept at a distance personally from them.
S. Osburne
was asked why she then hurt them, she denyed it: it being Asked of her how she could soe pinch & hurt them and yet she be at that distance personally from them she Answered she did not then hurt them.nor never did. she was Asked who then did it, or who she Imployed to doe it, she Answered she did not know that the divell goes aboute in her likeness to doe any hurt.
Sarah Osburn
being told that
Sarah Good
one of her Companions had upon  Examination accused her. she nottwithstanding denyed the same, according to her Examination, w'ch is more at Large given in as therein will appeare
Salem Village
March 1st 1691
Titiba an Indian Woman brought before vs by Const Jos Herick of Salem vpon Suspition of
Witchcraft by her Commited according to the Complt of Jos. Hutcheson & Thomas putnam
etc of Salem Village as appeares Warrant granted Salem 29 febr 1691/2
Titiba vpon Examination, and after some denyall acknowledged the matter of fact. according March 1, 1692 to her Examination giuen in more fully will appeare. and who also charged Sarah Good and
Sarah Osburne with the same,
(Reverse) Salem Village
[March 1, 1692]
March the 1th 1691/2
Sarah Good
Sarah Osburne
and Titiba an Indian Woman all of Salem Villag Being this day brought before vs vpon Suspition of Witchcraft &c by them and Euery one of them
Committed. titiba an Indian Woman acknowledging the matter of fact. and Sarah Osburne
and Sarah Good denying the same before vs but: there appeareing. in
all theire Examinations sufficient Ground to. secure them all. And in order to ffurther
Examination thay Ware all mittimus sent to ye Goales in the County of Essex.
Salem March 2d
Sarah Osburne
againe Examined and also titiba as will appear in their
Examinations giuen in titiba againe acknowledged the fact & also accused ye other two.
Salem March 3d Sarah Osburn and
titiba
Indian againe Examined.
the Examination now Giuen in
titiba againe sd the same
Salem March 5th Sarah Good and
titiba
againe Examined. & in theire Examination
titiba
acknowledg ye same she did formerly and accused thh osburnee other two abouesd  titiba againe said the same
vs John Hathorne
Assists
Jonathan. Corwin
Salem
March the 7th 1691/2
Sarah Good Sarah Osburne and
Titiba
an Indian Woman all sent to the Goale in Boston
according to. theire Mittimuses then sent: to Theire Majests Goale Keeper
( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 14, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )