SWP No. 95.2

(Examinations of
Sarah Osborne
and
Tituba
, as Recorded by
Ezekiel Cheever
)
[March 1, 1692]
Sarah Osburn
her examination
(H) what evil spirit have you familiarity with  (O) none.  (H) have you made no contract with the devill (O) no I never saw the devill in my life (H) why doe you hurt these children (O) I doe not hurt them (H) who do you imploy then to hurt them (O) I imploy no body (H) what familiarity have you with
Sarah Good
(O) none I have not seen her these 2 years. (H) where did you see her then (O) one day agoing to Town (H) what communications had you with her, (O) I had none, only how doe you doe or so, I did not know her by name (H) what did you call her then
Osburn
made a stand at that at last said, shee called her Sarah (H)
Sarah good
saith that it was you that hurt the children (O) I doe not know that the devil goes about in my likeness to doe any hurt
Mr Harthorn
desired all the children to stand up and look upon her and see if they did know her which they all did and every one of  them said that this was one of the woman that did afflict them and that they had constantly seen her in the very habit that shee was now in, thiere evidence do stand that shee said this morning that shee was more like to be bewitched than that she was a witch
Mr Harthorn
asked her what made her say so shee answered that shee was frighted one time in her sleep and either saw or dreamed that shee saw a thing like an indian all black which did pinch her in her neck and pulled her by the back part of her head to the dore of the house (H) did you never see anything else (O) no. it was said by some in the meeting house that shee had said that shee would never be teid to that spirit any more. (H) what lying spirit is this hath the devil ever deceived you and been false to you. O) I doe not know the devil I never did see him (H) what lying spirit was it then. (O) it was a voice that I thought I heard (H) what did it porpound to you. (O) that I should goe no more to meeting but I said I would and did goe the next Sabbath day (H) were you never tempted furder (O) no (H) why did you yeild thus far to the devil as never to goe to meeting since. (O) alas. I have been sike and not able to goe her housband and others said that shee had not been at Meeting this yeare and two months.
The examination of
Titibe
(H)
Titibe
what sp evil spirit have you familiarity with (T) none (H) why doe you hurt these children, (T) I doe not hurt them (H) who is it then the de (T) the devil for ought I kenknow (H) did you never see the devil, (T) the devil came to me and bid me serve him (H) who have you seen) (T) 4 women and sometimes hurt the children, (H) who were they? (T)
goode Osburn and Sarah good and I doe not know who the other were Sarah good and
osburn would have me hurt the children but I would not shee furder saith there was a tale
man of Boston that shee did see (H) when did you see them) (T) Last
night at Boston (H) what did they say to you they said hurt the children, (H) and did you
hurt them no (T) no there is 4 women and one man they hurt the s children and then lay all
upon hure and they tell me if I will not hurt the children they will hurt me (H) but did you
not hurt them (T) yes but I will hurt them no more (H) are you not sorry that you did hurt
them. (T) yes. (H) and why then doe you hurt them) (T) they say hurt children or we will
doe worse to you H) what have you seen an man come to me and say serve me (H) what
service (T) hurt the children and last night there was an appearnce that said K Kill the
children and if I I would no go on hurtang the children they woud doe worse to me (H)
what is this appearance you see (T) sometimes it is like a hog and some times like a great dog
this appearnce shee saith shee did see 4 times (H) what did it say to you (T) it s the black
dog said serve me but I said I am afraid he said if I did not he would doe worse to me (H)
what did you say to it (T) I will serve you no longer then he said he would hurt me and then
he lookes like a man and threatens to hurt me. shee said that this man had a yellow bird that
keept with him and he told me he had more pretty things that he would give me if I would
sere him. (H) what were these pretty things (T) he did not show me them. (H) what else
have you seen (T) two cats a red cat and a black cat (H) what did they say to you (T) they
said serve me (H) when did you see them last (T) Last night and they said serve me but I
shee said I would not (H) what service (T) shee said hurt the children (H) did you not pinch
elisabeth Hubbard this morning (T) the man brought her to me and made hur pinch her (H)
why did you goe to Thomas putnums Last night and hurt his child (T) they pull and hall me
and make goe (H) and what would have you doe Kill her with a knif Left fuller and others said at this {time} when the child saw these persons and was tormented by
them that she did complain of a knif that they wold have her cut her head off with a knife
(H) how did you goe (T) we ride upon stickes and are there presently (H) doe you goe
through the trees or over them (T) we see no thing but are there presently
(H) why did you not tell your master (T) I was afraid they said they would cut off my head if
I told (H) would you not have hurt others if you cold (T) they said they would hurt others
but they could not sh (H) what attendants hath
Sarah good
(T) a yellow bird and shee would have given me one (H) what meate did she give it (T) it did suck her betwen
her fingers (H) Did not you hurt mr Currins child (T) goode good and goode osburn told
that they did hurt mr Currens child and would have had me hurt him two but I did not (H)
what hath Sarah Osburn (T) yesterday shee had a thing with a head like a woman with
leggs and wings Abigill williams that lives with her uncle mr Parris said that shee did see
this same creature with goode osburn & yesterday being and it turned into the shape of
goode osburn (H) what else have you seen with g osburn (T) an othere thing hairy it goes
upright like a man it hath only 2 leeggs. (H) did you not see Sarah good upon elisebeth
williams {Hubbard} last Saterday (T) I did see her set a wolfe upon her to afflict her the
persons with this maid did say that shee did complain of a wolf T shee furder said that shee
saw a cat with good at another time (H) what cloathes doth the man we go in (T) he goes in
black cloathes a tal man. with white hair I thinke (H) how doth the woman goe) (T) in a
white whood and a black whood with a top knot (H) doe you see who it is that torments
these children now (T) yes it is goode good shee hurts them in her own shape (H) & who is
it that hurts them now (T) I am blind now I cannot see.
Salem Village
March the 1t 1691/2
Written by.
Ezekiell Chevers
Salem Village
March the. 1t 1691/2
Sarah Goods Examination
( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, nos. 11 & 12,  Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )
)