SWP No. 96.3

(Petition for
Mary Osgood
,
Eunice Fry
,
Deliverance Dane
,
Sarah Wilson, Sr.
, and
Abigail Barker
)
[++ January 3, 1693]
To the honoured court of Assize held at Salem, The humble address of several of the inhabitants of Andover.
May it please this honoured court,
We being very sensible of the great sufferings our neighbours have been long under in prison, and charitably judging that many of them are clear of that great transgression which hath been laid to their charge, have thought it our duty to endeavour their vindication so far as our testimony for them will avail. The persons in whose behalf we are desired and concerned to speak something at present are
Mrs. Mary Osgood
,
Eunice Frye
,
Deliverance Dane
,
Sarah Wilson
and
Abigail Barker
, who are women of whom we can truly give this character and commendation, that they have not only lived among us so inoffensively as not to give the least occasion to any that know them to suspect them of witchcraft, but by their sober godly and exemplary conversation have obtained a good report in the place, where they have been well esteemed and approved in the church of which they are members.
We were surprized to hear that persons of known integrity and piety were accused of so horrid a crime, not considering, then, that the most innocent were liable to be so misrepresented and abused. When these women were accused by some afflicted persons of the neighbourhood, their relations and others, tho' they had so good grounds of charity that they should not have thought any evil of them, yet, through a misrepresentation of the truth of that evidence that was so much credited and improved against people, took great pains to persuade them to own what they were, by the afflicted, charged with, and, indeed, did unreasonably urge them to confess themselves guilty, as some of us who were then present can testify. But these good women did very much assert their innocency, yet some of them said they were not without fear least Satan had some way ensnared them, because there was that evidence against them which then was by many thought to be a certain indication and discovery of witchcraft, yet they seriously professed they knew nothing by themselves of that nature: Nevertheless, by the unwearied sollicitations of those that privately discoursed them both  at home and at Salem, they were at length persuaded publickly to own what they were charged with, and so submit to that guilt which we still hope and believe they are clear of. And, it is probable, the fear of what the event might be, and the encouragement that it is said was suggested to them, that confessing was the only way to obtain favour, might be too powerful a temptation for timorous women to withstand, in the hurry and distraction that we have heard they were then in. Had what they said against themselves proceeded from conviction of the fact, we should have had nothing to have said for them, but we are induced to think that it did not, because they did soon privately retract what they had said, as we are informed, and, while they were in prison, they declared to such as they had confidence to speak freely and plainly to, that they were not guilty of what they had owned, and that what they had said against themselves was the greatest grief and burden they laboured under: Now, though we cannot but judge it a thing very sinful for innocent persons to own a crime they are not guilty of, yet, considering the well ordered conversation of those women while they lived among us, and what they now seriously and constantly affirm in a more composed frame, we cannot but in charity judge them innocent of the great transgression that hath been imputed to them. As for the rest of our neighbours, who are under the like circumstances with these that have been named, we can truly say of them that while they lived among us, we have had no cause to judge them such persons as, of late, they have been represented and reported to be, nor do we know that any of their neighbours had any just grounds to suspect them of that evil that they are now charged with.
Dudley Bradstreet
Francis Dane, sen.
Thomas Barnard
Tho. Chandler, sen.
John Barker
Henry Ingolls, sen.
Wm. Chandler, sen.
Samuel Martin
Stephen Parker
Samuel Ingolls
Ephraim Stevens
John Abbot, sen.
Samuel Blanchard
Wm. Ballard
Thomas Hooper
John Hooper
Wm. Abbot
James Russell
Oliver Holt
John Presson
Francis Dane, jun.
George Abbot
Elizabeth Rite
Wm. Peters
Sam. Peters
Walter Wright
Hooker Osgood
Benj. Stevens
Ann Bradstreet
Joanna Dane
Eliza. Stevens
Eliza. Barnard
Phebe Robinson
Daniel Poore
John Ingolls
Henry Ingolls, jun.
John Frie, sen.
James Frie
John Aslebee
Samuel Holt
Wm. Chandler, jun.
John Chandler
Joseph Robinson
Thomas Johnson
Tho. Johnson, jun.
Andrew Peters
Mary Peters
Hannah Chandler
Hannah Dane
Bridget Chandler
Mary Johnson
Robert Russel
Mary Russel.
( Thomas Hutchinson, The History of the Province of Massachusetts-Bay, vol. 2, ed. Lawrence Shaw Mayo (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1936), pp. 24–25. )