SWP No. 98.1

(Examination of
Mary Parker
)
[September 2, 1692. ]
2 Sep'r 1692.  The Examination of
mary Parker
of Andover widow taken before
Bartho' Gidny
John Hathorne
Jonat' Corwin
&
John Higginson
Esq'rs ther majesties Justices of the peace for the County of Essex in the forth yeare of their majesties Reigne
upon mentioneing of her name, severall afflicted persones wer struck down as
mary warrin
Sarah churchhill.
hannah post
,
Sarah Bridges
Mercy wardwell,
And when she came before the Justices, she recovered all the afflicted out of their fitts by the touch of their hand
She is accused for #[bewitching] acting of witchcraft upon
martha Sprague
And
Sarah Phelps
. Q. how long have ye been in the snare of the devil. Ansr. I know nothing of it There is another woman of the same name in Andover But martha Sprague affirmed that that this is the very woman that afflicted her
The said
mary Parker
Lookeing upon
Sprague
struck her down, and recovered her again out of her fitt,
Mary Lacey
being in a fitt, cryd out upon mary Parker, & s'd
Parker recovered her out of her fitt,
Mercy wardwell
was twice afflicted by Parker & recovered again by her
William Barker Jun'r
lookeing upon mary Parker said to her face That she was one of his company. And that the last night she afflicted martha Sprague in company with him
Mercy wardwell
said that this
mary parker
was also one of her company and that the said
parker
afflicted
Timothy Swan
in her company --
Mary Warrin
in a violent fitt was brought neare haveing a pin run through her hand and blood runeing out of her mouth she was recovered from her fitt by s'd mary parker The said mary warrin said that this mary Parker afflicted & tormented her, And further that she saw the said Parker at ane examination up at Salem Village sitting upon one of the Beams. of the house./
I underwritten being appointed by the Justices of the peace in Salem to wryt down the Examination of
Mary Parker
abovementioned Doe testify this to be a true coppy of the originall examination As to the substance of it,
*W'm Murray
(Reverse) Exam'n of
Mary Parker
( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 63, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )
)