SWP No. 119.5

(Deposition of
Mary Daniel
Vs.
Margaret Scott
&
Elizabeth Jackson
)
[August 4, 1692]
The Deposition of
Mary Daniel
aged nineteen yeers or there ab'ts s'd Deponent testifyeth that upon the 2'd day of the #(last) week last past, towards night, I was suddenly taken very ill and went to lye down on a bed, soon after which, there appeared to me the shape of some woman, who seemed to look and speak most feircly & angrily, and beat; pinch'd & afflicted me very sorely telling me I should not have said so, or told such things & to that purpose; I cannot positively say whose shape it was that I saw the first fitt. the next night after, I was taken very ill again all over & felt a great pricking in the soles of my feet, and after a while I saw apparently the shape of #(widow)
margret Scott
, who, as I was sitting in a chair by the fire pulled me with the chair, down backward to the ground, and tormented and pinch'd me very much, and I saw her go away at the door, in which fit I was dumb and so continued till the next morning, finding a great load and heaviness upon my tongue. In some of the fitts that I had afterwards, I was sensless and knew not that I saw who it was that afflicted me. In one fitt (upon the beginning it) I thought I saw
goodw Jackson
and
widow Scott
come waking into the chamber with y'r staves, one of them came and sat upon me so that I could not stirr;
Goodw Jackson
I saw no more, nor know I that she did me any harm. In another fitt I saw the appearance of s'd
Scott
in the room who afflicted me, and being speechless, I continued so, untill I went to the s'd
Scott
, who taking me by the hand, I had the liberty of speech again as formerly. The last fitt I had was upon the last Sabb'th day, in which I saw the shapes of four women or five, of whom
widow Scott
was one, the rest I knew not, nor knew that any did hurt me, unless s'd
widow Scott
.
Rowley August 4, 1692
Mary Daniell
owned: the truth of the above written evidence #(upon as) to the Jury of Inquest Sept'r 15: 1692.
M'r
Edward Paison
Made Oath that
Mary Daniil
did declare as above is written. attest,
St: Sewall
Cler in Court at Salem Sep'r 16. 92
(Reverse) Mary Daniell dep'o Agst Mary Scott
(Thomas Gage. The History of Rowley. (Boston: Ferdinand Andres, 1840) 172-173.