SWP No. 125.1

(Warrant for the Apprehension of
Tituba
and
Sarah Osborne
, and Officer's Return)
[February 29, 1692]
Salem febr' the 29'th day. 1691/2
Whereas
m'rs [masters] Joseph Hutcheson
Thomas Putnam
Edward Putnam
and
Thomas Preston
Yeomen of Salem Village, in the County of Essex. personally appeared before Us, And made Complaint on behalfe of Theire Majesties against.
Sarah Osburne
the wife of
Alexa' Osburne
of Salem Village afores'd, and
titibe
an Indian Woman servant, of
mr Sam'l parris
of s'd place also; for suspition of witchcraft, by them Committe'd and thereby much injury don to
Elizabeth Parris
Abigail Williams
Anna Putnam
and
Elizabeth Hubert
all of Salem Village afores'd sundry times with in this two moneths and Lately also done, at s'd Salem Village. Contrary to the peace and Laws of our Sov'r Lord & Lady W'm & Mary of England &c King & Queene
You are there fore in theire Maj'ts names hereby required to apprehend and forthwith or as soon as may be bring before Us the aboves'd
Sarah Osburne
, and
titibe
Indian, at the house of
L't Nath'l Ingersalls
in s'd place. and if it may be by to Morrow aboute ten of the Clock in the morning then and there to be Examined Relateing to the aboves'd premises. You are likewise required to bring at the same tyme
Eliz. parris
Abig'l Williams
Anna putnam
and
Eliz Hubert.
or any other person or persons that can give Evedence in the aboves'd Case. and here of you are not to faile
Dated Salem  febr' 29 1691/2
*John Hathorne
] Assis'ts
*Jonathan. Corwin
] Assis'ts
To Constable
Joseph Herrick
Const' in Salem (Reverse)
(Reverse) according to this warrant I have apprehended the persons with in mentioned and have brought them accordingly and have mad diligent sarch for Images and such like but can find non
Salem village this 1. march 1691/92
per me
*Joseph Herrick
Constable
( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 33, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA.  )