SWP No. 135.4

(Examination of
Mary Warren
)
[May 12, 1692]
Mary Warrens
Examination May. 12'th 1692
Q. Whether you did nott know that itt was the Devill's book when you Sighned? A I did nott know itt then but I know itt now, to be Sure itt was the Devills book; in the first place to be sure I did sett my hand to the Devills book; I have considered of itt, Since you were here last, & itt was the Devills book, that my
Master Procter
brought to me, & he Tould me if I would Sett my hand to that book I should be well; & I did Sett my hand to itt, butt that w'ch I did itt was done w'th my finger, he brought the Book & he Tould me if I would Take the book & Touch itt that I should be well & I thought then that itt was the Devill's book.
Q. Was there nott your consent to hurt the Children, when they were hurt?
A. Noe Sir, but when I was Afflicted my
master Procter
was in the Roome & said if ye are Afflicted I don't think that's ye & you and all: I said master, w't make you Say soe he Answered because you goe to bring out Innocent persones. I Tould him that that could nott bee & Whether the Devill Took advantage att that I know not to Afflict them and one Night Talking about them I said I did nott care though ye were Tormented if ye charged mee.
Q. Did you ever See any poppetts?
An. yes once I saw one made of cloth in
mistris Procters
hand.
Q. whoe was itt like or w'ch of the Children was itt for?
An. I cannot Tell, whether for
Ann. Putnam
or
Abigail Williams
, for one of them itt was I am Sure, itt was in my mistris's hand.
Q. what did you stick into that poppitt?
An. I did stick in a pin about the Neck of itt as itt was in
Procters
hand.
Q. how many more did you See afterwards?
An. I doe nott remember that ever I saw any more. yes I remember one and that Goody Parker brought a poppitt unto me of
Mercy. Lewiss
& she gave me a needle & I stook itt some where about the wasts & she appeared once more to me in the prison, & She Said to me what are you gott here? & she tould me that she was Comeing here hirselfe. I had another person that appeared to mee, itt was
Goody. Pudeator
& Said she was Sorry to Se me there, itt was in apparition & she brought me a poppitt, itt was like to
Mary. Walcott
& itt was a peice of Stick that she brought me to Stick into itt & Somewhare about hir armes I stuck itt in.
Q. where did she bring itt to you?
An. up att
Procters
. Goody Parker Tould me she had bin a Witch these. 12. years & more; & Pudeator tould me that she had done damage, & Tould me that she had hurt
James Coyes
Child Takeing itt out of the mothers hand.
A. Whoe brought the last To you? --
An. my mistris & when she brought itt, she brought itt, in hir owne person & hir husband w'th his owne hands brought me the book to Sighne, & he brought mee an Image w'ch looked yellow & I beleive itt was for
Abigall Williames
being like hir & I putt a thing like a thorne into itt, this was done by his bodily person after I had Sighned the  night after I had Sighned the book: While she was thus Confessiong Parker appeared & bitt her Extreamly on hir armes as she affirmed unto us.
Q. Whoe have you Sene more?
An.
Nurss
&
Cloys
and
Good's
Child after I had Sighned.
Q. What Sayd they to you?
An. They Sayd that I should never Tell of them Nor anything about them & I have seen
Goody Good
hirself.
Q. was that True of
Giles Cory
that you Saw him & that he Afflicted you the other day?
An. yes I have Sene him often & he hurts me very much &
Goody Olliver
hath appeared to me & Afflicted me & brought the Book to Tempt mee, & I have Seen
Goody. Cory.
the first night I was Taken, I saw as I thought the Apparition of
Goody Cory
& Catched att itt as I thought & Caught my master in my lap tho I did nott See my master in that place att that Time, upon W'ch my master Said itt is noe body but I itt is my shaddow that you see, butt my master was nott befor mee as I Could descerne, but Catching att the Apparition that Looked like
Goody Cory
I Caught hold of my master & pulled him downe into my Lap; upon W'ch he Said I see ther is noe heed to any of your Talkings, for you are all possest With the Devill for itt is nothing butt my shape. I have Sene
Goody Cory
att my masters house in person, and she Tould mee that I should be Condemned for a Witch as well as she hirself, itt was att my masters house, & she Said that the Children Would cry out & bring out all.
Q. was this before you had Signned?
An. yes, before I had any fitts.
Q. Now tell the truth about the Moutebank what Writeing was that?
An. I don't know I asked hir what itt was about
(On Reverse) but she would nott tell mee Saying She had promised nott to Lett any body See itt.
Q. well, but Whoe did you See more?
An. I don't Know any more.
Q. how long hath your Mast'r & Mistris bin Witches?
An. I don't know, they never Tould me.
Q. what likeness or appearance have you had to bew'ch you?
An. they never gave me any thing. While I was reading this over upon the Comeing in of
mr. Higginson
& mr Hale as soon as I read the Name Parker, She Imediately fell into dreadfull fitts as she affirmed  after his fit was over by the appearance of Goody Parker: &
mr Hathorne
presently but nameing
Goody Pudeator
& Tormented hir very much. and Goody Parker in the time of hir Examination in one of
Warrens
fitts Tould this Examinant that she had bewitched the Examinants Sister & was the Cause of hir dumbness as alsoe that she had lately killed a man aboard a vessell & Tould me that his name was
Michaell Chapleman
aboard the vessell in the harbour after they Ware Come to Anchor & that he dyed with a paine in his Side & that she had done itt by strikeing Something into his Side & that she had strook this Examinants Sister dumb that she should never speak more. and
Goody Pudeater
att the same Tyme appeared & Tould this Examinant that She had throwne
Jno Turner
off of a chery Tree & almost Killed him &
Goody Parker
s'd that she had Cast away Capt Prices Ketch,
Thomas Westgate
master, & Venus Colefox in itt & presently Tould hir that
Jno Lapthorne
was lost in itt and that they Were foundred in the Sea and she Saith that
Goody Pudeator
Tould hir that she went up to
mr Corwins
house to bewitch his mare that he should nott goe up to the farmes to Examine the Witches, alsoe
mr Burroughs
appearing att the Same Tyme and Afflicting hir Tould hir that he went to Tye mr Hathornes horses leggs when he went last to Boston & That he Tryed to bewitch him tho he Could nott his horse:
Goody Pudeator
tld hir that she Killed hir husband by giving him Something whereby he fell Sick and dyed, itt was she Tould hir about .7. or 8. years Since. and Goody Parker Tould hir that she was Instrumentall to drowne Orn's Son in the harbor. also she s'd she did bewitch
Jno Searle's
boy to death as his master was Carrying him out to Sea soe that he was forced to bring him back againe: alsoe
Burroughs
Tould hir that he Killed his Wife off of Cape=Ann. Parker tould hir allsoe that
Margarett Jacobs
was a wittness against hir and did charge hir yesterday upon hir (that is Jacobs's) examinatio'n.
( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 1, no. 116, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )