SWP No. 137.6

(Examination of
John Willard
, Second Version )
[May 18, 1692]
The Examination of
John Willard
.18. May 1692
The afflicted in most miserable fits upon his this Examinants drawing near
After several of them were recovered, he lookt upon them, & they again fell into fits, whilst the warrant & returne was reading.
Here is a returne of the Warrant that you were fled from Authority that is an acknowledgment of guilt, but yet notwithstanding we require you to confess the truth in this matter.
I shall, as I hope, I shall be assisted by the Lord of Heaven, & for my going away I was affrighted, & I thought by my withdrawing it might be better, I fear not but the Lord in his due time will make me as white as snow.
What do you say? Why do you hurt these? It is you, or your appearance.
I know nothing of appearance.
Is this the man?
Several of the afflicted said yes.
They charge you, it is you or your appearance.
I know nothing of appearance, & the God of Heaven will clear me.
They charge you, not only with this, but with dreadfull murders, & I doubt not if you be guilty, God will not want evidence.
Eliz: Hubbard
testifyed that he afflicted her, & then he lookt upon her & she fell into a fit.
Mercy Lewes
testimony read.
If you desire mercy from God, then you must confesse & give Glory to God.
S'r as to sins I am guilty of, if the minister asks me I am ready to confesse
If you have revolted from God you are a dreadful sinner.
Mary Warren
cryed out, oh he bites me
Ann Putnam
cryed out much of him
Open your mouth, don't bite your lips.
I will stand with my mouth open, or I will keep it shut: I will stand any how, if you will tell me how.
Ann Putnams
evidence read
Do you hear this evidence read?
Yes I do hear it.
Susan: Sheldons
testimony read
What do you say to this murdering & Bewitching your relations?
One would think (said he) that no creature except they belong to hell from their Cradle would be guilty of such things.
You say, you will bewitch your Grandfather because he prays that the Kingdom of Sathan may be thrown down
The examinant began a large oration
We do not send for you to Preach.
Ben: Wilkins
testifyed for all his natural affections he abused his wife much & broke sticks about her in beating of her
You had need to boast of your good affections
There are a great many lyes told, I could desire my wife might be called
Peter Prescot
testifyed that he with his own mouth told him of beating his wife.
It seems very much one of your confidence & ability to speak, should be no more #[in] courageous than to run away: by your running away you tell all that #[world] you are afraid
The examinant called upon
Aaron Wey
& urged him #[before] to speak if he knew anything against him
Aaron Wey
if I must speak I will, I can say you have been very cruel to poor creatures.
Let some persons goe to him
Ann Putnam
said she would go.
He said let not that person but another come.
John Indian  cryed out Oh! he cuts me.
Susan: Sheldon
said there is the black man whispering in his ear, & he should not confess
What do you say to this?
S'r, I heard nothing, nor see nothing.
Susan: Sheldon
tryed to come near him but fell down immediately, & he took hold of her hand with a great deal of do, but she continued in her fit crying out, O
John Willard
,
John Willard
& #[the ex]
What was the reason you could not come near him?
The black man stood between us.
They cannot come near any that are accused.
Why do you say they could not come near any that were accused:
You know
Nehemiah Abbet
they could talk with him.
Mary Warren
in a great fit carried to him & he clasping his hand upon her arm was well presently.
Why said he was it not before so with
Susannah Sheldon
?
Because said she the standers by you did not Clasp your hand before.
The like said the Constable and others.
They all or most testifyed that the dead those that he had murdered were now about him.
Do you think these are Bewitcht?
Yes, I verily believe it.
Well others they have accused it is found true on & why should it be false in you?
Sus. Sheldon
&
Mary Warren
testify that now h[torn] appearance come from his body & afflicts them.
What do you think of this? How comes this to pass?
It is not from me. I know nothing of it
You have taxt your self wonderfully, it may be you do not think of it.
How so?
You cryed up your tender affections and here round about they testify your cruelty to man & beast, & by your flight you have given great advantage to the Law, things will bear hard upon you, if you can therefore find in your heart to repent it is possible you may obtain mercy & therefore bethink your self
S'r I cannot confess that I do not know
Well but if these things are true Heaven & Earth will rise up against you.
I am as innocent as the child that is now to be born.
Can you pray the Lords prayer?
Yes.
Well let us hear you.
1. He stumbled at the threshold (that is the #(beging) beginning) & said Maker of Heaven & Earth.
2. He began #[against] again & mist It is a strange thing, I can say it at another time. I think I am bewitcht as well as they & laught
3. Again he began & said trespass against & mist us.
4. He began again, & cryed being puzled Well this is a strange thing
I cannot say it
He begun again & could not say it Well it is these wicked ones that do so overcome me
Josh: Rea Sen'r
gave in testimony that last night he said he hoped he should confess tho he had a hard heart, but, but he hoped he should confess.
Well say w't you will confess.
I am as innocent as the child unborn.
Do not you see God will not suffer you to pray to him, are not you sensible of it?
Why it is a strange thing.
No it is no strange that God will not suffer a wizard to pray to him. There is also the jury of inquest for murder that will bear hard against you. Therefore confess. Have you never wisht harm to your Neighbours?
Never since I had a being.
Well confess & give glory to God. Take counsell.
I desire to hearken to all good counsell. If it was the last time I was to speak I am innocent.
This is a true account of the #(abovesaid) Examination of
John Willard
without wrong to any party according to my original from Characters at the moments thereof
Witness my hand
*Sam: Parris
(Reverse)
John Willard's
Examination
( MS Am46.1, Dept. of Rare Books and Manuscripts Boston Public Library. Boston, MA.)