SWP No. 137.5

(Examination of
John Willard
)
[May 18, 1692]
The Examination of
John Willard.
.18 May. 1692
All the afflicted in most miserable fits when he came in, except
John Indian.
When the Warrant was read, he lookt upon severall & they fell into fits.
Here is a returne of the warrant that you were fled from Authority that is acknowledgment of guilt, but yet notwithstanding this we require you to confesse the truth in this matter.
I shall, as I hope, I shall be assisted by the Lord of Heaven, & for my #[flying away I] going away I was affrighted & I thought by my withdrawing it might be better, I fear not but the Lord in his due time will make me as white as snow.
What do you say? Why do you hurt them, it is you or your appearance?
I know nothing of appearance.
Was this the man?
Severall said yes.
They charge you, it is you or your appearance.
I know nothing of appearance, & the God of Heaven will clear me --
Well they charge you not only with this but with dreadfull murthers, & I doubt not if you be guilty, God will not suffer evidences to be wanting.
Eliz: Hubbard
testifyed against him & he lookt upon her, & she fell into a fit.
Mercy Lewis
testimony read.
If you desire mercy from God, then confesse & give glory to God.
S'r as for sins I am guilty of if the Minister askt me I am ready to confess.
If you have thus revolted from God you are a dreadfull sinner
Mary Warren
cryed out, oh! he bites me
Ann Putnam
cryed out much of him
Open your mouth, don't bite your lips
I will stand with my mouth open, or I will keep it shut, I will stand any how, if you will tell me how
An: Putmans
testimony read.
Do you hear this evidence read?
Yes I do hear it
Sus: Sheldons
testimony read.
What do you say to this murdering and bewitching your relations?
One would think (said he) that no creature except they belong to [torn] their Cradle would be guilty of such things.
You say you would bewitch your Grand-father because you, or your appearance saith he prays that the Kingdom of Satan may be thrown down.
He offered large talk
We do not send for you to preach
Benja. Wilkins
gave in evidence of his unnaturall usage to his wife.
You had much need to boast of your affections
There are a great many lyes told, I would desire my wife might be called
Peter Prescot
testifyed that he with his own mouth told him of his beating of his wife
He urged
Aaron Wey
to speak
Aaron Wey
thereupon said if I must speak, I will, I can say you have been very cruell to poor creatures.
Let some person go to him
Ann Putman
said she would go.
He said let not that person but another come
John Indian
#[said] cryed out he cuts me
Susan: Sheldon
said there is the black man whispering in his ear, & he should not confesse
What do you say to this
S'r I heard nothing nor see any thing.
Susan: Sheldon
tryed to come to him, but fell down immediately.
What is the reason she cannot come near you?
They cannot come near any that are accus'd.
Why do you say so, they could come near
Nehemiah Abbot
, the children could talk with him
Mary Warren
in a great fit carryed to him, & he clasping his hand upon her arm, she was well presently.
They all or most of the afflicted testifyed that the dead those that he had murdered were now about him.
Do you think these are bewitcht.
Yes, I really beleive it.
Well, others they have accused it is found true that they are the guilty persons, why should it be false in you?
Susan: Sheldon
&
Mary Warren
testifyed that now his appearance comes from his body & afflicts them.
How do you think of this, how comes it to pass?
It is not from me, I know nothing of it.
If you can find in your heart to confess it is possible you may obtain mercy & therefore bethink your [torn]
S'r I cannot confess that which I do not know
Well but if these things are true Heaven and Earth will rise up against you.
I am as innocent as the child that is now to be borne.
Can you pray the Lords prayer?
Yes
Let us hear you.
He stumbled at the thresh hold & said Maker of heaven & earth
He began again & mist
It is a strange thing, I can say it at another time. I think I am bewitcht as well as they, & laught
Again he mist
Again he mist & cryed well this is a strange thing I cannot say it
Again he tryed & mist
Well it is these wicked ones that do so overcome me
Joshua Rea
gave in testimony that last night he said he hoped he should confesse, but had a hard heart, but he hoped he should confesse.
Well say what you will confesse
I am as innocent as the child unborne.
Do you not see God will not suffer you to pray to him? Are not you sensible of it?
Why it is a strange thing?
No it is no strange thing that God will not suffer a Wizard to pray to him. There is also the jury of Inquest that will bear hard against you -- therefore confesse. Have you never wisht harm to your neighbors?
No never #[in my life] since I had a being.
Well confesse & give glory to God, take counsell whilst it is offered
I desire to take good counsell, but if it was the last time I was to speak, I am innocent
This is a true account of the Examination abovesai of John Willard without wrong to any
party according to my original from Characters at the moments thereof
Witness my hand
Sam: Parris
John Willards
Examination.
(Reverse)
John Willards
Examination
Exam[ination] ag't
Willard
( MS Am 46.2, Dept. of Rare Books and Manuscripts, Boston Public Library, Boston, MA.)