SWP No. 167.1

(Petition of
John Osgood
of Andover and Eight Others on Behalf of Their Wives and Relations )
[October 12, 1692]
To the Honored Generall Court Now sitting in Boston this  12 of october 1692
Right honored Gentlemen and fathers We your humble petitioners whose Names are under written petition as followeth: viz: We would Not Trouble Your honours w'th a Tedious diversion: but brieffly spread open our distressed Condition and beg your honours favour and pitty in affording what Relieff may be thought Convenient as for the matter of our Trouble: it is the distressed Condition of our wives and Relations in prison at Salem who are a Company of poore distressed creatures as full of inward grieff and Trouble as thay are able to bear up in life withall and besides That the agrivation of outward Troubles and hardships thay undergo: wants of food Convenient: and the coldness of the winter season that is coming may soon dispatch such out of the way That have Not been used to such hardships: and besides that The exceeding great Charges and expences that we are at upon many accounts which will be two Tedious to give a pertickular account of which will fall heavy upon us especially in a time of so great charge and expence upon a general accout in the Country which is expected of us to bear a part as well as others which if put all together our familys and estates will be brought to Ruin: if it Cannot in time be prevented: having spread open our Condition: we humbly make our adress To your honours to Grant that our wives and Relations being of such That have been approved as penitent Confessors might be Returned home to us upon what bond your honors shall see good we do not petition to take them out of  the hands of Justic but to Remain as prisoners under bond in their own familys wher thay may be more tenderly Cared for: and may be redy to apear to Answer farther when the honored Court shall Call for them: we humbly Crave Your Honors favour and pitty for us and ours herin. having lett down our Troubled state before you. we heartyly pray for your honors
petitioners:
*John Osgood
in behalf of his wife
John frey
. in behalf of his wife
John Maston.
in behalf of his wife:
mary maston
*Christopher Osgood
. in behalf of his daughter
mary maston
*Joseph Willson:
in behalf of his wife #[& children]
John Bridges:
in behalf of his wife and children
hope Tiler:
in behalf of his wife and daughter
*Ebenezer Barker:
for his wife
*Nathaniel Dane
for his wife
(In left margin)
John Osgood
et al.  Petition
( Mass. Archives, Vol. 135 No. 59, Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA. )