SWP No. 170.8

(Record of the Trial of
Mary Marston
)
[January 6, 1692]
Mary Marston
#[wife of
John Marston
] wife of
John Marston Jun'r
of Andover In the County of Essex, husbandman being Indicted by the Jurors for our Soveraigne Lord and Lady the King and Queen upon their Oathes by Two severall Indictments, That is to say. 1'st For that she the said
Mary Marston
wife of
John Marston
of Andover husbandman about Three years since in the Towne of Andov'r in the County of Essex afores'd A wicked and diabollicall Covenant wickedly mallitiousely and feloneously with the Devill did make and signe the Devills book, and promis to worship the Devill and serve him by which wicked Covenant with the Devill the said
Mary Marston
is becom a detestable Witch Contrary to the Peace of our Soveraigne Lord and Lady the King and Queen their Crowne & Dignity and the Lawes in that Case made and provided.
2'dly For that She the said
Mary Marston
on or about the twenty Eight day of August last in the year of our Lord one thousand Six hundred ninety two and divers other dayes and times as well before as after Certain detestable Arts Called Witchcraft and Sorceries Wickedly Mallitiously and feloneously hath used practised and Exercised at and in the Towne of Andover aforesaid in upon and against one
Abigail Martin
of Andover aforesaid by w'ch said wicked Acts the said
Abigail Martin
the day & year aforesaid #[aforesaid] and divers other dayes & times both before and after and is Tortured afflicted Consumed Pined wasted and Tormented against the peace of our Soveraigne Lord and Lady the King and Queen their Crowne and Dignity and the forme of the Stattute in that Case made & Provided. Upon the aforesaid Indictments and Each of them the said
Mary Marston
was then and there before the Justices of our Lord and Lady the King and Queen aforesaid Arraigned and upon her arraignement did then and there the day and year aforesaid plead to them and each of them not Guilty and put herselfe upon tryall by God & hir Country --
Nath'll Howard
fore[mbar ]
John Hale
Sam'll Morgan
James Sanders
Rich'd Gross
John Witt
Natha'll Emerson
John Emery
Benajah Titcomb
John Platts
John Lamson
James Friend.
A Jury being Called
Nathaniel Howard
foreman and accordingly Sworne no Exception being  made by the prisoner the said Indictments and every of them being Read together with Evidences and Examinations and the prisoners defence being heard, the Jury went out to agree on their verdict, Who Returning did then and there in open Court deliver their Verdict, That the said
Mary Marston
was not Guilty of the felony by witchcraft for which she stood indicted In and by the said Indictments and each of them.
The Court Ordered
Mary Marston
aforesaid to be discharged Paying fees.
(Records of the Superior Court of Judicature (1692/3), pp. 8-9, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives. Boston, MA.)