SWP No. 170.4

(Record of the Trial of
Mary Witheridge
)
Mary Witheridge
was Sett to the Barr and was Indicted by the Jurors for our Soveraigne Lord & Lady for that the said
Mary Witheridge
of Salem Village alias Salem in the County of Essex the Eighteenth day of May in the year of our Lord One thousand six hundred Ninety two and divers other dayes and times as well [before] as after Certaine detestable arts Called Witchcraft and Sorceries wickedly mallitiously and feloniously hath used practised and Exercised at and in the towne of Salem in the County of Essex aforesaid in upon and against one
Elizabeth Hobart
of Salem afores'd Singlewoman by w'ch said Wicked Acts the said
Elizabeth Hobert
the day and year aforesaid and divers other dayes and times both before and after was and is Tortured Afflicted Consumed Wasted Pined & Tormented and allso for sundry other Acts of Witchcraft by the said
Mary Witheridge
Committed and don before and since that time against the peace of our Soveraigne Lord and Lady the King and Queen their Crowne and Dignity and the form of the Stattute in that Case made and provided.
And the Jurors for our Soveraigne Lord and Lady the King and Queen doe allso upon their oaths indicte the said
Mary Witheridge
In or upon the Eighteenth day of May in the year of our Lord One Thousand six hundred Ninety & two and divers other dayes and times as well before as after Certain detestable Arts Called Witchcraft and Sorceries Wickedly Mallitiousely and feloniously hath used practised and Exercised at and in the Towne of Salem in the County of Essex afores'd In upon and against one
Sarah Vibber
wife of
John Vibber
of Salem aforesaid Husbandman by w'ch said wicked Acts the said
Sarah Vibber
the day and year aforesaid and divers other dayes and times both before and after was and is Tortured Afflicted Consumed Pined Wasted and Tormented, And allso for Sundry other Acts of Witchcraft by the said
Mary Witheridge
Committed and don before and since that time against our Soveraigne Lord and Lady the King and Queen their Crowne and dignity And the forme in the Stattute in that Case made and provided. Upon both w'ch Indictements the said
Mary Witheridge
was Areigned, and to the said Indictments pleaded not Guilty and put herselfe upon Tryall by God and the Country.
Petty Jury
James Freind
fo:
Rich'd Gross
John Emery
John Ardway
John Abby
John Witt
Josiah Gage
James Sanders
Nathan'l Emerson
Thomas Edwards
John Prichard
John Plats
The second Jury was Called James Freind foreman and no exception being made were swoarn to pass upon her tryall. The Evidences in the Cace being read and Wittness appearing The Prisoner made her defence. The Jury Returne their verdict. The Jury Say That
Mary Witheridge
is not Guilty of the felony by Witchcraft of whitch Shee stands Indicted in the two recitted Indictments.
The Court Ordered the said
Mary Witheridge
be Discharged paying her fees.
(Records of the Superior Court of Judicature (1692/3), pp. 4 & 5, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives. Boston, MA.)