SWP No. 170.34

(Case of
William Barker, Jr.
)
William Barker Jun'r
of Andover in the County of Essex Being Indicted by the Jurors of o'r Sovereigne Lord and Lady the King and Queen upon their oaths by Two Severall Indictments That is to Say  1'st For that the said
William Barker Jun'r
of of Andover in the County of Essex Some time in the Month of August last in the yeare 1692 afores'd at or in the Township of Andover in the County of Essex afores'd wickedly Mallitiously & felloniously a Covenant with the Devill did make & Signed the Devills booke and by the Devill was Baptized & before him renounced his former Baptizme and promised to be the Devills for ever & ever, By which wicked and Diabolliacle Covenant the Said
William Barker
is become a detestable witch against the peace of o'r Sov'n Lord & lady the King and Queen their Crowne and dignity and the laws in that Case Made and Provided. 2'dly for that he the said
William Barker Junior
of Andover in the County of Essex aforesaid Sometyme in the moneth of August last in the yeare 1692 afores'd and divers other dayes and times as well before as after Certaine detestable arts called Witchcraft and Sorceries Wickedly Malliciously and felloniously hath used Practised and Exercised at and in the Towne of Salem in the County of Essex afforesaid upon and ag'st one
Martha Sprague
alias
Martha Tyler
, By w'ch wicked arts the said
Martha Sprague
alias Tyler the day and year afores'd and divers other dayes and tymes as well before as after was and is Tortured Afflicted Tormented Pined & wasted ag'st the peace of o'r Sov'n Lord & Lady the King and Queen their Crown & Dignity & the laws in that Case made and Provided.
Upon the affores'd Indictments and each of them The said
William Barker Jun'r
was then and there before the justices of our Lord and Lady the King and Queen aforesaid #[aforesaid] Arraigned and upon his Arraignm't he did then and there the day and yeare abovesaid plead to them and each of them Not Guilty and put himselfe upon his God and his Countrey.
A Jury being Called
Thomas Burnam
foreman & accordingly Sworne no Exception being made by the prisoner the Said Indictm'ts and each of them being read together with the Evidences and Examinations and the prisoners defence being heard The jury went out to agree on their verdict who returning did then and there in open Court deliver their verdict That he the Said
William Barker
was Not Guilty of the fellony by witchcraft for w'ch he stood Indicted in and by the Said Indictm'ts and each of them.
The Court Orderd
William Barker
aforesaid to be Discharg'd Paying his fees --
(All cases in this section from Suffolk County Boston -- Mass. Superior Court of Judicature Records )
( Records of the Superior Court of Judicature (1692/3), pp. 60 & 61, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives, Massachusetts State Archives. Boston, MA. )