SWP No. 171.21

(Report of the Committee Regarding Payment for
John Arnold
Prison Keeper )
[June 27, 1700]
Boston June 27th 1700
Wee the Subscribers. Being in a Committee appoynted by the great & General Court at their Session the 13th March 1699/700 to Examin & Audit the accots. Of
Jno Arnold
Prison keeper in Boston & to make a Report vnto the General Assembly
In Obedience to said Order we haue carefully Examined said accots. & find that at two shillings & Six pence per weeke, there is due to said
Arnold
the Summe of thirty eight pounds eleven shillings Sixpence for the keeping the Prisoners. committed at the time of the Revolution, wch Summe he saith hath not been yet allowed him; & by Ordr was to release Sd Prissoners. wth out Saying they paying ffees So that he could not detain them for there diett amounting as aforesaid, he is ready to give his oath if required that he was never paid, the two shillings Six pence per weeke for their dyet neither by them nor the Publick-
Wee alsoe find that in his accot presented to the Honble Assembly in Novr 28th 1693 amounting to 150 li The court see cause to Ordr that he should have but 120 li & that it should be in full, wch Summe he saith his necessity was Such that he was forced to take that money; he Saith the only reason of the abatemt of the 30 li was vpon the accot of the prisoners Sent from Salem that could not be kept there Boston being then a Prison for the whole Province and the said
Arnold
affirmes he was never yet paid for their dyet neither by the publick nor the perticuler persons, & it lieth Only wth this Court to releive him
Wee further find an Article in his last accot presented to this court of Sixteen pounds for Blanketts. &ea wch by Ordr of Authority he provided for the prisoners wch was an Article not charged in his former accot the Consideration of the premisses humbly offer to the Consideration & Determination of this Honble Assembly./
Elisha Hutchinson
Peter Sergeant
John Walley
John Leverett
Samll Phipps
[On the eighth of July this vote was passed concurrently by both branches. The order in Council (Executive Records of the Council, vol. 3, p. 136) for the payment of this allowance was passed July 16, 1700]
Mass. Archives, vol. 40, p. 627, Acts & Resolves, p. 641