SWP No. 173.41

(Petition of
Margaret Towne
for
John Willard
)
[September 13, 1710]
Topsfield Septemb. 13 1710
To the Honored committee appointed by the Honored Generall Court (to make enquiry into the dammage sustained by any persons in the year 1692 by reason of the great disturbance in our land from the powers of darkness) the Committee aforesaid being to meet at Salem Sept the 14.
Margarett Town of Topsfield in the County of Essex in N. England, formerly
Margarett Willard
Relict of
John Willard
Late of Salem who suffered death in that hour of the power of darkness as if he had been guilty of one of the greatest of crimes that ever any of the Sons of Adams have been left of God to fall into, Having been notified by order of the Generall court to appear before your Honors to give an account as near as I can what dammage my self together with my aforesaid former Husband did sustain in our Estate besides the fearfull odium cast on him by imputing to him & causing him to suffer death for such a piece of wickedness as I have not the least reason in the world to thinke he was guilty of I say besides that reproach & the grief & sorrow I was exposed to by that means I do account our dammage as to our outward estate to have been very considerable. for by reason of my said former Husband being seized by order of the civil Authority & imprisoned all our Husbands concerns were laid by for that summer we had not opportunity to plant or sow whereas we were wont to raise our own bread corn I Reckon (which your Honors may please more certainly to Inform your selves from the Records of those unhappy times & things that happened) I say according to my best Remembranc from the time of his first imprisonment to the time of his suffering was near upon half a year all which time I was at the trouble & charge to provide for him in prison what he stood in need of out of our own estate, my aforesaid Husband was 3 weeks a prisoner at Boston which occasioned me to be at yet more charge & trouble & altho I had after his sentence of death was past upon him obtained a Replevin for him for a little time which not coming as was expected at the time appointed I was forced to hire a horse at Salem & go to Boston to see what was the reason of the failure, I have nothing further to add but only to pray your Honors to guess at the dammage as well as you can by the Information I have here given & that God will direct you in & about what you are now  concerned about, & so take Leave to subscribe my self
Your Honors Humble &  sorrowful servant
the marke of
Margarett Town
T
I Judge that my Loss and damage in my estate hath not been Less than thirty pounds, But I shall be satisfyed If I may have twenty pounds allowed me.
(Reverse)
John Willard
of Salem Condemned & Executed
( Mass. Archives, Vol. 135, no. 167. Massachusetts State Archives. Boston, MA. )