SWP No. 173.12

(Petition of
John Moulton
for Restitution for
Giles
&
Martha Corey
)
[September 13, 1710]
To the Hon'rable Commite Apointed by the Generall Court to make Enquire with Respect to the suferings in The year 1692: &c
these are to give you a short a Count of our sorrows and suferings which was in the yere 1692 some time in march our honerd father and mother
Giles Corey
&
Martha
his wife ware acused for soposed wich Craft and imprisoned and ware Removed from on prison to another as from Salem to ipswich & from ipswitch to boston and from boston to Salem againe and soe remained in Close imprisonment about four months we were att the whole Charge of their maintenance which was very Chargable and soe much the more being soe farr a distance from us as also by Reason of soe many removes in all which wee Could doe noe less than Acompanie them. which further added both to our trouble and Charge and although that was very Great is the least of our greavence or cause of Thease lines but that which breakes our hearts and for which wee goe mourning still is that our father was put to soe Cruell and painfull a death as being prest to death our mother was put to death also though in another way.
And as wee Cannot sufficiantly Express our Griffe for the loss of our father and mother in such away -- soe we cannot Compute our Exspences and Coast but Shall Comite to your wisdome to judge of but after our fathers death the sh'rife thretened to Size our fathers Estate and for feare thar of wee Complied with him and paid him Eleaven pound six shillings in monie by all which we have bee[n] greatly damnified & impovershd by being Exsposed to sell Creaturs and other things for litle more than half the worth of them, to get the monie to pay as afores'd and to maintaine our father & mother in prison but that Which is grieveous to us is that wee are not only impoverished but also Reproached and soe may bee to all generatians and that wrongfully two unless something bee done for the removeall thereof all which we humbly Committe to the honorable Court Praying God to direct to that which may bee axceptable in his sight and for the good of this land
September the 13th 1710
Wee subscrib your humble searvants in all Christiane obedience   We Cannot Judge our nesessary Expence to be less then Ten pounds
(Reverse)
*John Moulton
who mared
Elezabeth Corey
daughter of the aboves'd in the behalf of the reast of that familie.
Giles Corey
&
Martha
his wife Condemnd & Executed, both of Salem.
( Mass. Archives, Vol. 135, no. 161. Massachusetts State Archives. Boston, MA. )