SWP No. 173.89

[
]archives/MA135/large/MA172r.jpg)
(Memorial & Petition by
Thomas Newman
& Others for
George Burroughs
)
[March 28, 1750]
To His Honour
Spencer Phipps
Esq'r:
Lieutenant Governor and Commander in Chief in and Over his Majesty's Province of the Massachusetts Bay in New England, and to the Honourable the Council, and the Honourable the House of Representatives, in General Court Assembled. --
The Memorial of
Thomas Newman
,
Abia Holbrook
and
Elias Thomas
, Agents for their respective [relatives] the surviving Children and Grandchildren of
George Burroughs
formerly of Falmoth in the County of York & Province aforesaid, Clerk, Deceased, As a Supplement to the Prayer of their Memorial & Petition humbly Presented to His Excellency Governor Shirley, and the Honourable His Majesty's Council, and this Honourable House of Representatives, on the Thirty first Day of May last. --
Most humbly Suggesteth, --
That their said Memorial and Petition setting forth the Awful and Miserable Condition of the Unhappy Children and Descendants of the
Reverend Mr George Burroughs
, who as therein set forth, had his Blood shed, and was one of the most deplorable Victims cut off in the fatal Catastrophe in the Year 1692 -- Was by the Honourable Court referred to the Consideration of a Committeee of both Houses in June last to report what might be proper for the Court to Act Thereupon, But so it seems it hath fell out that Honourable Mr Danforth Chairman of the said Committee hath not as yet called them together so much as once to Act thereon even to this Day as some of the Honourable Committee themselves were pleased with real Concern to Signify to your said Petitioners, --
Your Memorialists therefore most humbly Supplicate (they having been put to great Expence already) that their said Memorial & Petition may be again brought forward, Read & Acted upon before the final Rising of this Court, that so a Stop may be put to the Cry of the long oppressed Sufferers --
And Your Memorialists as in Duty bound shall ever Pray &c
*Thomas Newman
Abia Holbrook jun'r
*Elias Thomas
Boston  March 28, 1750.
(Reverse)  In the House of Rep'ves March 28 1750
Memorial Petition of
Thomas Newman
,
Abia Holbrook
and
Elias Thomas
March 28, 1750
Entered:
In the House of Rep'ves March 28, 1750 Read and Ordered that the Committee within refer'd to be directed to Sit forthwith Consider the Petition to them Committed and Report as soon as may be Sent up for concurrence,  Befoe March 28, 1750.
*Tho's Hubbard
Spk'r: pro Tempore
( Mass. Archives Vol. 135 No. 172 & 173. Massachusetts State Archives. Boston, MA. )