SWP No. 173.84

(Petition of the Children of
George Burroughs
)
[April 8, 1713]
To the Gentlemen appointed. A Comitte Relateing to the affairs of WitchCraft &C ]
Boston Apr'll. 8. 1713 Gentlemen we the Subscribers & Chilldren of
Mr Georg Burrough
who suffered in the Late Troubles att Salem. in the yere 1692. offer to your Consideration the Conduct of Our mother in Law, affter the Deth of our father: -- she made Sure of all that there was of household Goods &c togather with Our fathers Liberary which was of Som Value, Said Liberary was Sold affterward & part of the mony Came affterward into the hands of a Second husband, but Nothing thereof nor of the household Goods &c Ever Came into our hands. we were Turn'd Out into a wide world to shift for Our Selves haveing nothing to trust into but Divine Providence and the Generosity of frinds (not on the Side of our mother in Law) & som of us So young that we Can give no Acco'tt of perticular CirComstances of the family nor Capeable any of us to Give a perticuler Acco'tt of the wrong Don us Any further then we are informed by Others, but Can assure you we never had the value of Six pence to Remember Our father with when Dead and gon. And we Cannot but observe to you that what the Honerable Court Allowed when Divided among the Chilldren According to the Direction of the Same Amou'tt to but about four pounds apeice, which we think but a poor recompense (Setting aside the Deth of our father) to make good Our Due proportion of his Substance which we were Deprived of by means of his Deth, besides the Dificulties we were put unto & the Charge of bringing up, if the Consideration of w't we relate which is matter of fact well known to many besides our Selves, bee motive sufficient to Enjage yo'r Consideration of us in what you have stopt of the above mentioned Grant of the Honerable Court: we desier you to deliver what you see Cause to allow us to Our brother
(Reverse)
Georg Burrough
. if what we Offer be not worthy of your Consideration or Argument Sufficient that we should have what Remains in your hands, we Only desier the favour of a Speedy Answer: for the Sum as we are inform'd is so small that much trouble in the buisness will Surmount it by far should we be allowed it att Last; So that an information of your resolves in the  buisness will Prove more of a favour then Tedious Delays should you Grant itt at Last. Not further att pressent but Remaine to Offer We Remaine Gentlemen your humble Ser'tts.
*Peter Thomas
in behalf of my wife.
*Jabez Fox
in behalf of my wife.
Children of
Mr. Burroughs
Salem may 11th 1713 Majeager Seuell Sir be pleased to let my brother
Charles Burrough
have my part that was Leaft
So you will oblige your humble Serveant.
*Jeremiah Burrough.
(Reverse)
J. Borroughs
order
( Essex County Court Archives, Salem -- Witchcraft Vol. 2, no. 162.  Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Judicial Archives. Massachusetts State Archives, Boston, MA )